High-school student Wendy Christensen visits an amusement park for a senior-class field trip with her boyfriend Jason Wise, best friend Carrie Dreyer, and Carrie's boyfriend Kevin Fischer. As they board the Devil's Flight roller-coaster, Wendy has a premonition that the hydraulics securing the seat belts and coaster cars will fail during the ride, killing everyone on board. She panics and a fight breaks out. Kevin, best friends Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin; alumnus Frankie Cheeks; athlete Lewis Romero; and goth couple Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer get off the ride. The roller-coaster derails killing the remaining passengers leaving Wendy devastated.
Several weeks later Kevin tells Wendy about an aircraft explosion and the subsequent deaths of the survivors, believing they might be in a similar situation. Thinking Kevin is mocking her, Wendy dismisses his theory. Then Ashley and Ashlyn die at a tanning salon when a chain reaction traps them in over-heating tanning beds. Now convinced Death is stalking them, Wendy and Kevin set out to save the remaining survivors using omens hidden in photographs Wendy took on the night of the roller-coaster derailment.
Frankie dies in a truck accident at a drive-through. The next day, they try to save Lewis at the gym. He says he does not believe them shortly before two falling weights kill him. They find Ian and Erin working at a hardware store. Wendy saves Ian from being impaled by falling planks of wood. Erin falls on a nail gun and is shot repeatedly through the head. Wendy and Kevin are questioned by police then released. Assuming whoever was next must already be dead, they decide to ensure their own safety. As she leaves the station, Wendy is stalked by a grief-stricken Ian.
Wendy learns that her sister Julie and a friend also escaped the roller-coaster crash. She and Kevin rush to save them. They prevent Julie from being impaled on a harrow. Julie's friend Perry Malinowski is impaled on a flagpole. Wendy saves Kevin from an exploding propane canister. A deranged Ian, who blames her for Erin's death, confronts her. Wendy dodges exploding fireworks he throws at her. They strike a nearby cherry picker that collapses and kills Ian.
Five months later, Wendy experiences more omens riding on a subway train with her roommate Laura and friend Sean. As Wendy is about to disembark, she sees Julie entering the car and decides to stay. She later notices Kevin sitting at the back of the car. As the two of them are talking, the train derails and everyone on board except Wendy is killed. Soon after, Wendy is hit by another train. It turns out this is another premonition and Julie, Kevin and Wendy try to stop the train. The film ends with a black screen and the sound of screeching metal.


