Sam Lawton is on his way to a company retreat with his colleagues. While their bus crosses the North Bay Bridge, Sam has a premonition that the bridge will collapse, killing everyone on it, except for his ex-girlfriend Molly Harper, who he manages to get across the bridge safely. In a panic, he persuades several people to leave the bridge before it collapses, including Molly; his friends Nathan Sears and Peter Friedkin; Peter's girlfriend Candice Hooper; his boss Dennis Lapman; and co-workers Olivia Castle and Isaac Palmer. FBI agent Jim Block doesn't believe that Sam is responsible for the bridge collapse, but promises to keep an eye on him. At the memorial service, coroner William Bludworth mysteriously tells the survivors that "Death doesn't like to be cheated," and warns them to be careful. Believing this to be nonsense, they ignore his warning and leave.
Later, Candice goes to gymnastics practice with Peter, where an unseen entity begins to follow her, and when a chain reaction causes Candice to fly off the uneven bars, she snaps her spine, leaving Peter devastated. The next day, Isaac is killed when his head is crushed by a falling Buddha statue during an acupuncture session at a Chinese spa. Bludworth, who has been present for both deaths, tells the remaining survivors that if they wish to cheat Death, they must kill someone who was never meant to die on the bridge and thereby claim their remaining lifespan. On the same day, Olivia goes to an eye surgery clinic to treat her myopic vision. While the eye doctor is out looking for files the laser malfunctions, searing her eye and hand. She manages to free herself just as Sam and Molly arrive to save her, but trips and falls out of the window onto a car below. Later, Sam realizes that the survivors are dying in the order they were meant to die on the bridge; and realize that Nathan is next on Death's list.
Meanwhile, Nathan, who has returned to the factory, accidentally kills his co-worker, Roy Carson, during an argument by pushing him in front of a lifting hook, which impales him through the chin. Nathan relays this information to the remaining survivors, who realize he claimed Roy's remaining lifespan by killing him and therefore must be safe. When Dennis arrives to question Nathan about the incident, a wrench launched by a belt sander hits him in the face, killing him.
That evening, Sam works at a restaurant, and after work asks his supervisor to reserve the restaurant for a date with Molly. Peter, who has become unstable after Candice's death, interrupts the date to tell them that he has decided to kill Molly to take her lifespan. After Peter draws a gun, Sam and Molly both escape to the restaurant's kitchen. Agent Block overhears the gunshots from outside, but when he enters the restaurant he is shot dead by Peter. Believing that he is now safe from Death, Peter decides to kill both Molly and Sam to remove any witnesses. Sam and Peter fight and Peter knocks Sam unconscious, but just as Peter is about to stab Molly with a kitchen knife, Sam awakens and stabs him in the back with a large skewer; leading Sam to believe he has claimed Block's life.
Two weeks later, Sam and Molly board a flight to Paris. As they take their seats, a fight breaks out between two passengers (Alex Browning and Carter Horton), revealing the plane he and Molly are on is Flight 180. Upon take-off, Sam overhears that one of the passengers had a vision of the plane's destruction, but it is too late for them to leave and both he and Molly are killed before the plane explodes. At Roy's memorial, Nathan learns that Roy had a brain aneurysm that would have burst "any day now." As Nathan realizes he is still in danger, the landing gear from Flight 180 crashes through the roof and crushes him, setting off the events of the first four films.


