Harry Potter awakens from a nightmare wherein Frank Bryce is killed after overhearing Lord Voldemort conspiring with Peter Pettigrew and another man. Harry attends the Quidditch World Cup between Ireland and Bulgaria with the Weasleys. After the game, Death Eaters terrorise the camp, and the man who appeared in Harry's dream summons the Dark Mark.
At Hogwarts, Albus Dumbledore introduces ex-Auror Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. He also announces that the school will host the legendary event known as the Triwizard Tournament, in which three magical schools compete by facing three dangerous challenges. The Goblet of Fire selects "champions" to take part in the competition: Cedric Diggory of Hufflepuff representing Hogwarts, Viktor Krum representing the Durmstrang Institute from Central Europe, and Fleur Delacour representing Beauxbatons Academy of Magic from France. The Goblet unexpectedly chooses a fourth champion: Harry Potter. Dumbledore cannot pull the underage Harry out of the tournament, as Ministry official Barty Crouch Sr. insists that after being selected, the champions are bound by a contract.
For the first task, each champion must retrieve a golden egg guarded by a dragon. Harry succeeds in retrieving the egg, which contains information about the second challenge. Shortly after, another event known as the Yule Ball, a formal dance takes place; Harry's crush Cho Chang attends with Cedric, and Hermione Granger attends with Viktor, making Ron jealous. During the second task, the champions must dive underwater to rescue their mates. Harry comes out in third place, but is placed second behind Cedric due to his "moral fibre" after saving Fleur's sister Gabrielle as well as Ron. Afterwards, Harry finds the corpse of Barty Crouch Sr., then visits Dumbledore at his office, and while waiting for him, discovers a Pensieve, which holds Dumbledore's memories. Harry witnesses a trial in which Igor Karkaroff, Durmstrang Institute's Headmaster, confesses to the Ministry of Magic names of other Death Eaters, after Voldemort's defeat. When he names Severus Snape as one, Dumbledore vouches for Snape's innocence; Snape turned spy against Voldemort before the latter's downfall. As Karkaroff names Barty Crouch Jr., a devastated Barty Crouch Sr. imprisons his son in Azkaban. Exiting the Pensieve, Harry realises the man he saw in his dream is Barty Crouch Jr.
For the final task, the champions enter a hedge maze, and must reach the Triwizard Cup. Viktor, under the influence of the Imperius Curse, incapacitates Fleur. After Harry saves Cedric when the maze attacks him, the two claim a draw and together grab the cup, which turns out to be a Portkey and transports them to a graveyard where Pettigrew and Voldemort are waiting. Pettigrew kills Cedric with the Killing Curse and performs a ritual that rejuvenates Voldemort, who then summons the Death Eaters. Voldemort releases Harry in order to beat him in a duel to prove he is the better wizard. Unable to defend himself, Harry tries the Expelliarmus charm at the same moment that Voldemort attempts the Killing Curse. The beams from their wands entwine, and Voldemort's wand disgorges the last spells it performed. The spirits of the people he murdered materialise in the graveyard, including Harry's parents and Cedric. Voldemort and his Death Eaters are distracted, allowing Harry to escape with Cedric's body by grabbing the Portkey.
Harry tells Dumbledore that Voldemort returned and killed Cedric. Moody takes Harry back to his office to interrogate him about Lord Voldemort, inadvertently blowing his cover when he asks Harry whether there were "others in the graveyard" though Harry never mentioned a graveyard. Moody reveals that he submitted Harry's name to the Goblet of Fire and manipulated Harry throughout the tournament to ensure he would win. Moody attempts to attack Harry, but Dumbledore, Snape, and Minerva McGonagall intervene and subdue him. The teachers force Moody to drink Veritaserum, a truth-telling potion, and he reveals that the real Moody is imprisoned in a magical trunk. The false Moody's Polyjuice Potion wears off, revealing him as Barty Crouch Jr. Crouch Jr. is returned to Azkaban.
Dumbledore reveals to the students that Voldemort killed Cedric, although the Ministry of Magic opposes the revelation. Later Dumbledore visits Harry in his dormitory, apologising to him for the dangers he endured. Harry reveals that he saw his parents in the graveyard; Dumbledore names this effect as "Priori Incantatem". Soon after Hogwarts, Durmstrang, and Beauxbatons bid farewell to each other.


