In the mid-21st century, crop blights and dust storms threaten humanity's survival. Joseph Cooper, a widowed engineer and former NASA pilot, runs a farm with his father-in-law Donald, son Tom, and daughter Murphy. Living in a post-truth society, Cooper is reprimanded for telling Murphy that the Apollo missions were not fake; he encourages her to carefully observe and record what she sees. They discover that dust patterns, which Murphy first attributes to a ghost, result from gravity variations, and translate into geographic coordinates. These lead them to a secret NASA facility headed by Cooper's former supervisor, Professor John Brand, who explains that 48 years earlier a wormhole appeared near Saturn, opening a path to a distant galaxy with twelve potentially habitable planets located near a black hole named Gargantua. Volunteers had previously traveled through the wormhole to evaluate the planets, with Miller, Edmunds, and Mann reporting back desirable results. Brand explains he has conceived two plans to ensure humanity’s survival - Plan A involves developing a gravitational propulsion theory, allowing a mass exodus from Earth, while Plan B is a conventional launch of the Endurance spacecraft with 5,000 frozen embryos to colonize a habitable planet. Cooper is recruited to pilot the Endurance. When Murphy refuses to see him off, he leaves her his wristwatch to compare their relative time when he returns.
The crew consists of Cooper, the robots TARS and CASE, and the scientists Dr. Amelia Brand, (Professor Brand's daughter), Romilly, and Doyle. After traversing the wormhole, Cooper, Doyle, and Brand use a lander to investigate Miller's planet, where time is severely dilated. After landing in knee-high water and finding only wreckage from Miller's expedition, a gigantic tidal wave kills Doyle and waterlogs the lander's engines. By the time the engines restart, 23 years have elapsed in terms of Earth time.
Having enough fuel for only one of the other two planets, Cooper rules they go to Mann's, as he is still broadcasting. En route, they receive messages from Earth. Murphy Cooper is now a scientist working on Plan A. On his deathbed, Professor Brand reveals to her that Plan B was his only real plan, knowing that Plan A required observations of gravitational singularities from within a black hole.
On Mann's planet, the Endurance crew revive Mann from cryostasis. He assures them colonization is possible, despite an extreme environment. On an excursion, Mann attempts to kill Cooper and reveals that he falsified the data in the hope of being rescued. He steals Cooper's lander and heads for the Endurance. While a booby trap set by Mann kills Romilly, Brand rescues Cooper with the other lander and they race to the Endurance. Mann is killed in a failed manual docking operation, severely damaging the Endurance. Through a difficult docking maneuver, Cooper regains control.
With insufficient fuel, they resort to a slingshot around Gargantua which costs them another 51 years. In the process, Cooper and TARS must jettison their landers to allow Brand and CASE to reach Edmunds' planet. Slipping past the event horizon of Gargantua, they eject from their craft and find themselves in a tesseract, possibly constructed by humans of the far future. Across time, Cooper can see through the bookcases of Murphy's old room on Earth and weakly interact with its gravity. Realizing that he is now Murphy's "ghost", he manipulates the second hand of the wristwatch he gave her before he left, transmitting via Morse code the quantum data that TARS collected from inside the event horizon.
The tesseract, its purpose completed, collapses and ejects Cooper and TARS. Cooper wakes on a huge station, orbiting Saturn. He reunites with Murphy, now an old woman nearing death. Using the quantum data, she was able to develop the gravitational propulsion theory, enabling humanity’s exodus and transformation into an advanced spacefaring civilization. She reminds Cooper that Amelia Brand is out there alone. Cooper and TARS take a spacecraft to rejoin Brand and CASE, who are setting up a human colony on Edmunds' habitable planet.


