Johnny English (Rowan Atkinson) has been training in Tibet following a botched mission in Mozambique when he is summoned by MI7. Under his new boss Pegasus (Gillian Anderson), he is put on a mission to investigate a plot to assassinate the Chinese Premier during scheduled talks with the Prime Minister. He meets fellow agent and old acquaintance Simon Ambrose (Dominic West); MI7's resident quartermaster, Patch Quartermain (Tim McInnerny); and junior agent Colin Tucker (Daniel Kaluuya), who will be English's new assistant.
In Hong Kong, English finds ex CIA agent Titus Fisher (Richard Schiff), who reveals himself to be a member of Vortex, who were responsible for sabotaging English's Mozambique operation. Vortex holds a secret weapon that requires three metal keys to unlock. But when he reveals his key, Fisher is killed by a grey haired woman (Pik-Sen Lim) disguised as an apartment cleaner, and another guy steals the key.
English chases the thief across Hong Kong, but loses him when the culprit leaps over a ventilator. However, recalling his Tibetan training, English simply slips into the gap between the ventilator and a wall. He continues the chase by means of easy solutions to hazardous routes the thief takes - for example, when the criminal slowly climbs down bamboo scaffolding, English simply takes an elevator. However, on his flight back to London, English is tricked by another Vortex operative disguised as a flight attendant, and is humiliated in a meeting with the Foreign Secretary and Pegasus when he attempts to present the key and the plans. He then mistakes Pegasus's mother to be the cleaner assassin and attacks her at Pegasus's daughter's birthday party.
Kate Sumner (Rosamund Pike), MI7's behavioral psychologist, uses hypnosis to help English recall his suppressed memory of Mozambique, revealing another Vortex operative, Russian spy Artem Karlenko (Mark Ivanir). English and Tucker meet Karlenko at an exclusive golf course outside London. However, mid game, the cleaner assassin critically injures Karlenko. As English and Tucker fly by helicopter to take Karlenko to a hospital, Karlenko reveals that the Vortex third key holder is a mole inside MI7, and then dies.
At MI7, English learns that talks between Britain and China will be conducted at a heavily guarded fortress called Le Bastion in the Swiss Alps. Over dinner, English confides with Ambrose about the mole, not knowing that Ambrose is the actual mole. Ambrose tricks English into thinking Quartermain is the traitor, and despite Tucker confronting Ambrose in the bathroom, English dismisses Tucker and lets Ambrose go free, giving him Karlenko's key. At a church, English confronts Quartermain, but realises he has been framed as the traitor.
He escapes the MI7 operatives using Quartermain's enhanced wheelchair, and hides at Sumner's flat. After reviewing the footage of the Mozambique mission, Sumner realises the assassin behaved abnormally, and that Vortex has a drug called timoxeline barbebutenol that makes the person suggestible to mind control before killing them. Ambrose picks up Sumner to go to the fortress event, knowing that English had been hiding in the flat.
English persuades Tucker to rejoin him to infiltrate Le Bastion. English warns Pegasus of the threat, but unknowingly imbibes the drink containing the drug. Ambrose tells English to subdue Pegasus, which he does with a punch to the face. Assigning English to be the Prime Minister's bodyguard inside the safe room, he orders him to kill the Chinese Premier using a pistol disguised as lipstick. However, English attempts to resist the drug. Tucker arrives and interrupts Ambrose's communication feed, but Ambrose resets the communication, exposing himself to the Chinese Premier in the process. English resists again and shoots Ambrose, who dodges and escapes, but the chemical enters its lethal stage, and English falls to the floor. Sumner arrives and is able to revive English with a passionate kiss.
With Ambrose heading down the mountain, English pursues him by parachuting and then snowmobilling down a mountainside. The two spies fight in an aerial tram, but English prevails after recalling his training in Tibet where he was repeatedly kicked in the crotch, but falls off the lift. Ambrose shoots at English, but English is able to use his spy umbrella's rocket launcher to destroy the lift, killing Ambrose. Later on, Vortex is shut down and English is to have his knighthood reinstated by the Queen. During the ceremony, the Queen is revealed to be the killer cleaner again, which leads English to attack the real Queen by accident, realising his mistake only when the killer cleaner is finally caught by the others.


