In 2029, no mutants have been born in 25 years. Logan's healing ability has weakened and he has aged; he spends his days working as a limo driver in El Paso, Texas. In an abandoned smelting plant in northern Mexico, he and mutant tracker Caliban care for nonagenarian Charles Xavier, Logan's mentor and founder of the X-Men. Charles, a psychic, suffers from a brain disease that causes him to have destructive seizures unless controlled with medication; a seizure a year earlier killed seven mutants, leaving Logan, Caliban, and Xavier as the last of the X-Men.
Gabriela Lopez, a former nurse for biotechnology corporation Alkali-Transigen, tries to hire Logan to escort her and an 11-year-old girl, Laura, to Eden, a refuge in North Dakota. Logan reluctantly accepts but finds Gabriela killed. He is confronted at his hideout by Gabriela's killer Donald Pierce, Transigen's cyborg chief of security, who is looking for Laura. Laura has stowed away in Logan's limo and has powers similar to Logan's. She, Logan, and Charles escape Pierce and his Reavers, but Caliban is captured and tortured by Pierce into tracking Laura.
A video on Gabriela's cellphone shows that Transigen created Laura and other children from mutant DNA samples to turn into weapons. Laura was created from Logan's DNA. As they proved difficult to control and Transigen had found an alternative, the children were to be killed, but Gabriela and other nurses helped some of them escape.
In Oklahoma City, Logan discovers that Eden appears in an X-Men comic in Laura's possession and assumes it is fictional. The Reavers arrive, but Charles has a seizure and incapacitates everyone in the vicinity except for Logan and Laura, who kill the attackers and inject Charles with his medication. As they flee, Dr. Zander Rice, head of Transigen, arrives to help Pierce.
Logan, Laura, and Charles help farmer Will Munson and his family after a traffic incident and accept an offer of dinner at their home. Logan drives off enforcers from a corporate farm harassing Will. Rice unleashes X-24, a clone of Logan in his prime, who murders Charles and Will's family, stabs Will and captures Laura. Caliban sets off grenades, killing himself and several Reavers while injuring Pierce. Logan fights X-24 but is outmatched. Will pins X-24 with his truck, but dies from his injuries. Logan and Laura escape with Charles's body.
After burying Charles, Logan passes out. Laura takes him to a doctor and persuades him to take her to Eden where they find Rictor and other Transigen children preparing to cross to Canada. Laura finds an adamantium bullet Logan has kept since his escape from Weapon X, which he once considered using to commit suicide. Logan decides his job is done and chooses not to accompany them, much to Laura's dismay.
The children are captured by the Reavers. Logan takes an overdose of a serum given to him by Rictor that temporarily strengthens his physical and healing abilities. With Laura's help, he slaughters most of the Reavers, but the serum wears off. As Pierce holds Rictor at gunpoint, Rice tells Logan, who killed Rice's father years ago while escaping from Weapon X, that no new mutants were born due to a Transigen virus that Rice created. Logan shoots Rice, killing him, and attacks Pierce. X-24, enraged by Rice's death, fights Logan. With their guards distracted, the children kill Pierce and the remaining Reavers. Rictor uses his seismic powers to flip a truck onto X-24, who then frees himself, drags Logan and impales him on a tree branch, mortally wounding him, but Laura shoots X-24 in the head with the adamantium bullet, killing him.
Near death, Logan tells Laura not to become the weapon she was made to be, and after Laura finally tearfully acknowledges him as her father, Logan dies peacefully in Laura's arms. Laura and the children then mourn over Logan's death and bury him near a lake, just like Charles. After the burial, Laura turns the cross on Logan's grave on its side to create an X, to honor him as the last of the X-Men, and then departs with the other children to continue their journey across the frontier.


