In 2013, huge alien sea monsters called Kaiju emerge from an interdimensional portal called the Breach at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. Over the course of three years, the Kaiju wreck havoc upon coastal cities along the Ring of Fire, such as San Francisco, Cabo San Lucas, Sydney, Manila, and Hong Kong. Humanity responds by constructing massive robotic machines called Jaegers to combat the Kaiju threat. Each Jaeger is piloted by two or more people, who are connected by a neural bridge in a process called "drifting" to share the mental stress of piloting the machine.
In 2020, the Jaeger Gipsy Danger, piloted by brothers Raleigh and Yancy Beckett, defends Anchorage from the Kaiju named Knifehead. They both engage in combat, with Gipsy gaining the upper hand and defeating Knifehead by blasting it with its plasma cannon. Unknown to them, Knifehead is still alive. Knifehead then re-emerges, ambushes them, critically damages Gipsy Danger by severing its left arm, and throws Yancy out of the cockpit, killing him. Raleigh manages to pilot Gipsy alone, activating the remaining plasma cannon and finally killing Knifehead. Traumatized by Yancy's death, Raleigh quits the Jaeger program.
In 2025, the world governments decide to end funding for the continuous construction of Jaegers, in favor of building massive coastal walls, as the Kaiju are growing more powerful, their attacks more frequent, and Jaegers are being destroyed faster than they are being built. The remaining four Jaegers are relocated to Hong Kong under the command of Marshal Stacker (Eric.) Pentecost, who plans to end the Kaiju War by destroying the Breach using a nuclear weapon. However, the wall is revealed to be a failure, as a Kaiju named Mutavore easily breaks through the wall at Sydney before being killed by the Australian Jaeger, Striker Eureka.
Pentecost tracks down Raleigh at a wall-construction site in Alaska and persuades him to rejoin the program. Traveling to the Hong Kong base, the Shatterdome, Raleigh is introduced to Mako Mori, director of the Jaeger restoration program and Pentecost's adoptive daughter. Four Jaegers remain in operation – the refurbished Gipsy Danger, the Russian Cherno Alpha, the Chinese Crimson Typhoon, and Striker Eureka, piloted by father and son Herc and Chuck Hansen, and intended to deliver the nuclear weapon to seal the Breach.
To find a new co-pilot, Raleigh participates in tryouts, assuming Mako is "drift-compatible", despite Pentecost's protests. During their first drifting test, Raleigh is distracted by the memory of Yancy's death. Mako, in turn, is lost in the memory of the Kaiju attack on Tokyo that orphaned her, and nearly fires Gipsy's plasma cannon. Mako is promptly relieved of piloting duties, and Raleigh confronts Pentecost, the former Jaeger pilot who fought and killed the Kaiju that attacked Tokyo and adopted Mako after the battle, telling him that he is being overprotective of her.
Pentecost consults Kaiju experts Newton Geiszler and Hermann Gottlieb. Hermann claims that the Breach will stabilize and the Kaiju will increase in number, but it will allow the assault to succeed, while Newton suggests drifting with a Kaiju's brain to learn more about them. Newton goes ahead with his plan despite Hermann's protests and discovers that the Kaiju are actually bioweapons grown by alien colonists, that live in the dimension on the other side of the breach called the Anteverse, who plan on wiping out humanity. With Pentecost's permission, Newton searches for black market dealer Hannibal Chau, who sells body parts of dead Kaiju, to obtain a fresh Kaiju brain to drift with. However, he soon figures out that since drifting is a two-way link, the Kaiju hive mind gained access to his knowledge just as he did theirs. Soon after, two new Kaijus, Leatherback and Otachi, emerge simultaneously to find Newton.
All Jaegers except Gipsy Danger are dispatched to intervene. Otachi destroys Crimson Typhoon, while Leatherback destroys Cherno Alpha and paralyzes Striker Eureka with an EMP blast. Otachi then heads out to find Newton, destroying much of Hong Kong in its wake. Out of options, Pentecost reluctantly allows Mako and Raleigh to pilot Gipsy Danger. Gipsy is then deployed to fight the two kaiju, first taking on Leatherback, who stayed near the deactivated Striker. Gipsy kills Leatherback by blowing it apart with its plasma casters, then follows Otachi into the middle of Hong Kong where they narrowly manage to save Newton from being eaten. Otachi takes flight and tries to carry Gipsy into the atmosphere, but Gipsy manages to kill Otachi midair with its sword, and plummets back to earth unharmed.
Examining Otachi's body, Newton and Hannibal find out that it is pregnant. The infant Kaiju bursts out and chases Newton, but seemingly dies shortly after birth: when Hannibal approaches to investigate, it springs back to life and eats him whole before choking on its umbilical cord and dying for good. Now with an accessible Kaiju brain, Newton and Hermann drift with the infant's brain, discovering that the Breach can only open in the presence of a Kaiju's DNA.
As Herc was injured during the previous fight, Pentecost, who is dying from radiation sickness resulting from piloting a Jaeger built with a nuclear core before the implementation of radiation shielding, pilots Striker Eureka with Chuck. Along with Gipsy Danger, they approach the Breach. Three Kaijus emerge from the Breach to defend it: Raiju, Scunner, and Slattern, who is the largest one ever encountered. Raiju manages to cripple Gipsy but is quickly killed, while Striker is immobilized by Slattern, who calls to Scunner for aid. Pentecost and Chuck decide to detonate the bomb, as they are easily overwhelmed, depending on Gipsy's nuclear reactor to seal the Breach. The explosion kills Scunner, however Slattern survives, so Gipsy grapples it, burns it to death using its reactor and, considering Newton and Hermann's discovery, rides its corpse into the Breach. As the Jaeger reaches the other side, Raleigh successfully overloads the reactor and ejects Mako and himself using escape pods. The reactor explodes, killing a few nearby alien creatures and destroying the Breach, while Raleigh and Mako's escape pods surface in the Pacific Ocean. Herc, now the Marshal, orders the war clock to stop, indicating mankind's victory, and Raleigh and Mako embrace as rescue helicopters arrive.
In a mid-credits scene, Hannibal, revealed to have survived being swallowed, cuts his way out of the Kaiju infant and asks where his lost shoe is.


