Three years into its mission, the USS Enterprise arrives at Yorktown, a massive space station, for resupply and shore leave for her crew. Struggling to find meaning in their endless exploration, Captain James T. Kirk has applied for a promotion to vice admiral; he recommends Spock as his replacement. Meanwhile, Hikaru Sulu reunites with his family, Montgomery Scott works to keep the ship operational, and Spock and Nyota Uhura amicably end their relationship; Spock also receives word from New Vulcan that Ambassador Spock, his counterpart from the original timeline, has died.
The Enterprise is dispatched on a rescue mission after an escape pod drifts out of a nearby uncharted nebula. The occupant, Kalara, claims her ship is stranded on Altamid, a planet within the nebula. As the Enterprise exits an asteroid field within the nebula, a massive swarm of small ships ambushes and quickly overwhelms the starship. The leader of the swarm, Krall, and his crew board the crippled Enterprise and unsuccessfully search for a relic, the Abronath, that Kirk had recently obtained. Krall captures and removes many crewmembers from the ship; he also has his swarm cut the Enterprise into pieces. Kirk orders the crew to abandon ship, leaving the remains of the Enterprise to crash on Altamid.
On the planet, Krall captures Sulu, Uhura, and other survivors. Kirk and Pavel Chekov, accompanied by Kalara, locate the Enterprise's saucer section; realising that Kalara knew they would be attacked, they trick her into revealing herself as Krall's spy. To escape Krall's soldiers, Kirk and Chekov use the ship's thrusters to flip the saucer over, crushing Kalara. Elsewhere on the planet, a wounded Spock and Dr. Leonard McCoy search for other survivors; Spock explains to McCoy that the tension he witnessed between him and Uhura at the Yorktown base was due to his intention to leave Starfleet to help the Vulcan survivors, and continue the late Ambassador Spock's work. Jaylah, a scavenger who previously escaped Krall's encampment, rescues Scott and takes him to her makeshift home, the grounded USS Franklin, an early Starfleet vessel reported missing over a century earlier. Scott is reunited with Kirk, Chekov, McCoy and Spock. Threatening to kill the crew, Krall coerces Ensign Syl to hand over the Abronath that she had kept hidden for Kirk, then dissolves her completely using the Abronath, the missing half of an ancient bioweapon that can disintegrate any humanoid. With the device complete, Krall intends to attack Yorktown and kill its inhabitants before going on to attack the Federation. Kirk and the others free the crew as Krall launches into space with the bioweapon, leading his drones to Yorktown.
As the Enterprise survivors power up the Franklin and launch her back into space in pursuit of Krall, they deduce that such a massive swarm must coordinate its attacks via radio signals, specifically on the FM frequency. Scott transports Spock and McCoy into one of the swarm ships to seize control of one. Matching the swarm's frequency, they jam and disorient the swarm by broadcasting the 1994 song "Sabotage" by the Beastie Boys over the channels, destroying almost the entire fleet. Krall and his three surviving ships, one of whom contains Spock and McCoy, are chased by the Franklin through Yorktown, ending at the stations headquarters when the Franklin slams into the ships. As Krall flees into the starbase, Uhura and Kirk discover from the Franklin's logs that he is actually Balthazar Edison, former captain of the Franklin. A pre-Federation human soldier, Edison rejected the Federation's principles of unity and cooperation with former enemies like the Xindi. When he and his crew were stranded on Altamid by a wormhole, the three survivors used the technology of the planet's extinct natives to prolong their lives at the cost of the others and re-purposed their dormant drone workers into the swarm. Thinking that the Federation had abandoned them, Edison now plans to destroy the Federation and resume galactic conflict. Kirk pursues Edison into Yorktown's ventilation system, where Edison activates the bioweapon. Before it can be unleashed, Kirk ejects Edison and the bioweapon out of Yorktown and into space where the weapon consumes Edison. Using the alien ship they had commandeered, Spock and McCoy save Kirk moments before he is also blown into space.
In the aftermath, Commodore Paris closes the unsolved cases of Captain Edison and the USS Franklin crew. Kirk decides to remain as a captain while Spock chooses to remain in Starfleet and begins to renew his relationship with Uhura. Jaylah has been accepted into Starfleet Academy on Kirk's recommendation. As the crew celebrates Kirk's birthday, together they watch the progress of the completion of their new ship, the USS Enterprise-A, and on the ship's completion, they resume their mission.


