College student Nick O'Bannon visits the McKinley Speedway with his girlfriend Lori Milligan and their friends Hunt Wynorski and Janet Cunningham. While watching the race, Nick has a premonition of a horrible car accident that sends debris into the stands, causing the stadium to collapse. When Nick panics a fight breaks out and several people leave the stadium, including, Lori, Hunt, Janet, security guard George Lanter, mechanic Andy Kewzer, his girlfriend Nadia Monroy, racist tow truck driver Carter Daniels, and mother Samantha Lane. As Nadia berates the group a stray tire suddenly flies out the stadium and decapitates her.
Several days after the accident, Carter tries to set a cross on fire on George's lawn for preventing him from saving his wife, but a chain reaction causes him to be dragged down the street on fire before his tow truck explodes. The next day, Samantha is leaving the beauty salon when a rock propelled by a lawn mower is suddenly shot through her eye, killing her. After reading about the events in the paper and past disasters (of the previous films), Nick becomes convinced that Death is still after them. Hunt and Janet refuse to believe them, but they manage to convince George to help. The group visits the mechanic shop to warn Andy, but he is killed when a CO2 tank launches him through a chain link fence. After receiving a premonition involving water Nick tries to warn Hunt, who has gone to a country club pool. At the same time, George and Lori try to find Janet, who becomes trapped in a malfunctioning car wash, and they manage to save her at the last second. Hunt drops his lucky coin in the water after accidentally turning the pool's drain on and when he dives in he is sucked down to the drain, where the increasing suction eventually sucks his organs through the drain pipe. Afterward, George admits that he tried to commit suicide several times, but every attempt has failed. Nick believes saving Janet must have ruined Death's plan and the group celebrates.
Four days later, Nick begins to see more omens and remembers asking, cowboy, Jonathan Groves to switch seats prior to the accident, meaning he is actually next. Nick and George track Jonathan down at a hospital, where he remained in traction recovering from the accident, and they witness him being crushed by an overflowing bathtub that falls through the ceiling. As they leave; George is suddenly hit by a speeding ambulance and Nick realizes that Lori and Janet are still in danger. He tracks them down at a mall cinema and convinces Lori to leave, but Janet refuses and is killed by flying debris when a chain reaction causes the screen to explode. A multitude of explosions race Nick and Lori through the mall until they are trapped on a malfunctioning escalator and Lori is dragged into the gears and killed. This turns out to be another premonition, and George is killed by an ambulance before Nick can warn him.
At the mall, Lori begins seeing omens as well. Having failed in his premonition, Nick runs back to the mall to stop the explosion before it occurs. He is pinned to a wall by a nail gun but manages to stop the fire before it spreads to several combustible barrels, saving everyone. Two weeks later, Nick notices a loose scaffold prop while heading into a café and warns a construction worker about it before going inside. While talking with Lori and Janet, he starts to see more omens and alludes the theory that his predictions were red herrings meant to lead them to where they needed to be for Death to strike. Just as he realizes this the scaffold outside collapses causing a truck to swerve and crash into the coffee shop, killing all three of them. Janet is crushed under the tires, Lori is decapitated by the impact, and Nick is propelled into a wall, dislocating his jaw.


