The way these trees don’t touch

This is called Crown Shyness and scientists think it may be an adaptation to slow the spread of leaf eating insects
“I’m not touching yoooou!” 👉
They are smarter than we think
Doesn’t it make sense that having the leaves at the end of the branches rub against each other and fall off easier could create this effect as well?
They’d do well on a long road trip
trees ain't gay
I'm not sure why, but this makes me uncomfortable
Inside view of a broccoli 
"Two trees, chillin' in a jungle ... 5 feet apart cause they're not gay"
Major the witness flashbacks.
The way this is reposted.
Looks like a sky river. 
NO TOUCHING!
Gotta love nature. 
Hi res image? 
I imagine each tree saying, “Oh, excuse me!” “Oh, no. Excuse ME!” So polite, these trees.
They respect privacy
Kinda looks the same skin does when you look at it up close
Don't grow so, Don't grow so close to me!
Reminds of something I saw in the documentary about fractals...heres the link if anyone is interested...

https://youtu.be/HvXbQb57lsE
Hmm I wonder if it's so they don't get pulled down when another tree falls
"not touching you, can't get mad; not touching you, can't get mad..."
Looks like someone poured milk in the cracks of a poorly maintained road.
I'll never walk the forest again. But then ferns seem way gayer.
Two bros chillin in a hot tub
5 feet apart cus they’re not gay!
this is from The Autistic Forest 
2 trees, standing in a forest, 5 inch apart 'cuz they're not gay
You never make em touch!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BkgMbU-we1o
 I'm not touching yooouuu...
Send the burglar up to see how far we are from the edge of the forest. 
Even trees have better boundaries than my folks...
Looks like a [Voronoi diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voronoi_diagram)
Oh they're touchin 😎, where the sun don't shine. 
That’s the bottom of an alien spaceship if I’ve ever seen one before!
So, my social life is that of a tree. Who knew.
/r/nicetrees

/r/crowncels
they why does my neighbors fruitless mulberry all over my tree checking it off 
Torterra
miss me with that gay shit
Looks like a board in settlers of Catan 
As a Fortnite fiend, all I see is Wailing Woods.
r/natureisfuckinglit
Nah, they just not gay.
Damn, that's interesting.
But how do they know where the other tree is?
Do they know what sort of feedback or negative feedback that makes them stop short?
Ancedotally, at the cellular level there is a similar concept called contact inhibition, and typically "NORMAL" cells only divide until a certain point, ie until they touch other types of cells, untli the ECM is not right, etc. Lots of things.  Of course all we study in the lab are horrible mutants like HeLa who laugh at such concepts.  BUt yeah it is one of the bases of tissuegenesis.

I thought it was because they all share a root system and thus don't feel the need to compete with each other over light? Or am I thinking of another tree?
Thx for the insight;)!
Might just be because when they sway in the wind, they hit each other and knock off the exterior branches. 
This also makes traveling through the canopy difficult for primates. 
I would of thought it was from the wind blowing them around and breaking of the outer branches where the trees meet.
I thought it was the high winds that created this. 
Trees are smart. My boss and coworkers thought I was smart too when I joined my company, but apparently you’re not supposed to smile while trimming your toenails and that turned them all off 
Jamie pull that shit up
You couldn't be more correct. Plants as a whole are far more intelligent that we once assumed and the science on this is slowly coming to light. Took a class on the topic a year or two ago. Very interesting research is underway.
yeah and leaves would shade out others too making edge leaves more likely for abscission
Stunted growth due to irritation and cross damage possibly with wind?
That probably has something to do with it, but probably doesn't fully explain the phenomenon. For one, the gaps between trees are decently large, and it seems unlikely that gaps that large would form solely due to leaf contact. Furthermore, not all tree species have this behavior. And for species that exhibit crown shyness, they mostly exhibit it with trees of the same species (though not 100% of the time). I'm not a dendrologist or botanist, but based on my quick reading of some literature it seems like this is an adaptation that trees do "on purpose," for lack of a better phrase. 
Word
Miss me with that gay shit
r/tryptophobia 
As long as the leaves don’t touch.
Leave me with that gay shit
Two trees chilling in the forest, 5 feet away because they’re not gay.
That trees aren’t gay?
r/damnthatsinteresting
I'm totally guessing, but maybe as the trees sway in the wind, they rub against each other.
It's actually well-documented that many plants can sense neighbors by detecting the scattering of certain light waves (far-red light, specifically) using their photoreceptors. 
Reciprocal pruning may also play a part in this, as others mentioned. 
But who was phone?
With a sense of scent. The other trees release their own fragrance into the surrounding air, and if it gets close enough to foreign smells, it stops growing.
Lack of light from that region might.
I think I get what you are going for, but even branches on the same tree can sometimes compete for light.  It's not like a network of trees would be anymore "Aware" of whether the tree next to it was part of the same network, since a tree doesn't even know where it's own branches are.  It's more likely that these trees have just adapted to shed leaves and branches that happen to rub against other trees, and by random chance, that ended up being an advantage in natural selection.
I watched a ted video explaining that every forest shares a root system. Different species of trees will pass nutrients along a network of roots and some mushrooms can tap into it. So while you might not be wrong, I think there is probably a different explanation.
I love reddit 
Another way to be a real wise guy around the office is to stick a pen between your buttcheeks and give it to Kathy in accounting.

When she asks you why it smells like shit say, "That's because Kathy it was in my ass." 
Good to know
I once read that they have their own kind of internet to communicate. They have a symbiosis with some type of fungi which transports the signals
Vegans will be eating cigarette butts and Oreo wrappers in 10 years
I’m not claiming to know this as fact. Thats just the first thought that entered my head when I saw the picture.
I've read studies that this indicates trees actually communicate on some level with each other. 
ya we don't want the homosexual
r/trypophobia *
Juuuuuuust the tips
Tree nuts*
Balsa touching
It's ok if it's a feminine leaf though
What a missed opportunity at a pun
Leaf me* FTFY
They're always hard as wood.
That is, in fact, one of the main hypotheses, so good thinking. They call it "reciprocal pruning".
I wouldn't be surprised if plant growth like this isn't too dissimilar to the human body processes of orthidonture where continual constant pressure causes chemical reactions by the body to grow and erode bone.

If the branches wave in the breeze and touch something, overtime the plant just doesn't grow there
Aactually I googled it and there are a few theories. One is that the buds of trees are sensitive to abrasion, so the trees leaves rub against each other in the wind and that abrasion prevents growth. 


Another is that the plants can detect the presence of close leaves by sensing back scattered far-red light, and that this light makes the plant divert growth from that area. 
Reddit loves you 
hey that’s clever but this would not work because i choose to eat confetti and go around the office farting in others faces. the only thing wrong with that is that it smells but the fun confetti cancels that out 
Jamie pull that shit up
I'm pretty sure that's just the movie Avatar
I gotcha, no worries. The way you phrased it made me think you might be looking for answers. And not that I'm an expert or anything, but I did have some interest in this phenomenon so I read up on it a bit and figured I may as well share what I found. 
Wouldn’t it be treemosexual?
Damn I even clicked on the auto link and thought it was the right sub because it actually linked. 

Thanks 
tip tap tip tap
I like touching tips. 
The tree is stored in the nuts
literally all nuts are from trees though, not counting peanuts

edit: I'm wrong
WHAT SUNNOFABITCH DOWNVOTED YOU?
I’m confused. You have something come out when you fart? Dude, that’s called shitting. You shit in people’s faces and they put up with it. Where do you work?
“It was two years ago you probably can’t find it”



“.......”





“Oh he took that like a fucking challenge!”
http://www.bbc.com/earth/story/20141111-plants-have-a-hidden-internet
No. Trees don't have gender do they?

If not then homosexual works, since any tree liking another tree is "same sexual"
Just a little tappy tap tap.
https://i.imgur.com/fcsfRa0.jpg
And peanuts aren’t even actually nuts they belong to the legume family so you are still entirely correct. Just a little fact of the day for ya
Hazelnuts and Chinquapin Nuts both grow on bushes. And then there's deez nuttz which grow from a bush next to a mighty oak tree. 
Wait even beer nuts? Is there a beer tree? 
Ask and you shall receive. 
I did.
[Yes, actually](https://www.hunker.com/12000274/what-is-the-difference-between-a-male-female-avocado-plant)

A more relatable example is the marijuana plant.  Only the female plants provide the good stuff.
Trees do have genders. Some have both the female and male part while others just have one. Another intresting fact is that they can switch randomly from male to female for example the ginko tree can start of male which dkest bare fruit and randomly switch the next year and produce the most foul smelling shit fruit that's ever grazed this earth. 
A tappy tip tap. 
Well that's just being pedantic. Peanuts are culinary nuts. We know they're technically legumes.
Hazel sometimes grows in a tree form. I've only seen it once, so I doubt it's very common. 
if you drink enough, yes
Yeah, you just gotta be careful the males dont get in there and fuck em all. Lock up your (weed) daughters, lock up your (weed) wives.
