Dutch church pays tribute to Avicii after he passed away

Really nice gesture, she's done this for Bowie as well i think.
I really wonder how they made that happen. Amazing 
My brother doesn't follow edm as much, but as soon as I played avicii top hits he would remember hearing it and he said "I didn't know this was avicii". His music was heard by  almost everyone. RIP. I'll remember  you anytime I see a flannel. 
Avicii’s death has hit me harder than any other celebrity death yet. I can’t explain it. 

Because he was so young or because he played such a huge role in the memories I’ve made the past 6 or 7 years, I can’t say. Will listen to his music forever. 
I live in Utrecht and I remember when Star Wars the force awakens came out, the Dom played Star Wars and all the street musicians also played Star Wars it was so fucking cool!

People like to lump him in with typical edm artists because of preconceived notions about the industry but he truly had a unique talent ... using vocal artists no one would ever think of and mashing genres when he already had the ‘levels’ style going for him. He could have easily kept the same style, but he came out with ‘True.’

I remember since Seek Bromance in 2010, his melodies always put me in such a different mood. I can remember so many times his music put me in a good mood over the years and now can’t help to be sad while listening to his songs, instead of the happiness it brought at that time. 

Edit: Here’s his complete discography in chronological order: 

https://open.spotify.com/user/tx7j5g8v30lxahtefb2il5028/playlist/5xKKb2UoqhxGuAhleim6Bo?si=z-AzIWVxStW6BSoFpKd24Q
Definitely worth checking Utrecht out, it's a 20 min train ride from Amsterdam, it retained its medieval core, place looks like a fairy tale.  
https://i.imgur.com/zoWQnlI.jpg   
That's in Utrecht. Love that city! Used to live there once for half a year. The Dom tower plays different famous songs quite often. Nice tribute! 
Wait, Avicii passed? Wtf he was so young what happened? 
What song?
Amazing, made me tear up.
Thumbnail made me think I was getting ready to watch an episode of "The Office".
Man, swelling up right now. Beautiful, Tim's music touched in probably more ways than an unsuspecting fan like myself fell 'victim' too. sad.
If you're interested to see the inside and see when it gets played you can watch it here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04
Amazing tribute, nice gesture..
Oh man, I almost tear up to this! Really cool gesture!

RIP Avicii
Please someone wake Avicii up! :(
Damn that’s really cool 
Goosebumps
Amazing
This brought tears to my eyes 
This is very cool 
This would put me in tears
My wife and I are from Boston and we honeymooned in Utrecht last May - it's such an incredible city. We loved every second of it. Just by chance, we arrived at the start on Koningsdag. What a place!

https://imgur.com/a/hnbFvK7
I wasn't a huge fan of his music, but damn, I'd heard it in clubs and I'd sang along and had a good time. Makes me super sad to hear he died.
very sad but a nice tribute
to be honest I’ve been feeling really numb about his death, he’s the same age as my big sister and he was truly influential to my start in music.

this broke through that numbness and made me start to tear up. I needed that. thanks for posting this.
This was a pretty awesome behind-the-scenes look at this bell tower! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04
I feel like I've landed on another world.  For the first time in a long, long time, I have no clue who someone is in the news.  And now they're playing his songs on church bells?  This guy must have been special.  But, it's driving me nuts that I failed on my attempt to age intellectually by keeping up on technology and world people and events.
The church celebrating a person’s lifestyle they definitely do not agree with and warn against. Seems pretty liberal to me. Good on them 
I hate most edm songs but I listen to an acoustic cover of 'without you' almost every week. It helped me vastly in getting over my ex...
I actually nearly teared up. that was a brilliant idea 
This is great! 
/r/mademesmile
Never underestimate your impact on the world. 
So clever. And a great tribute.
1:10 someone coudn't wait with the dish washing
What a terrible way for me to find out he died
I’m not crying, you’re crying 
I needed a good cry today, thanks. 
Super disappointed that it wasn't Levels.
This is actually beautiful.
This was amazing. Thank you for sharing this. 
The 3 songs: Wake me up, Without You and The Days.
How come this church didn’t play All Star after Shrek memes died?
Curious about the clock tower? [Heres some breif history and a cool demo] (https://youtu.be/6CQgzqYuo04)
I miss Europe just seeing the church and buildings 😕
There's something about church bells that makes it seem so ominous.
Here's a brilliant video taking a look inside: [Domtoren Clock Tower Plays the Marble Machine Song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04)
"so wake me up when its all over, when im wiser and im odler"

theese lyrics meant so much to me before...but now that hes gone i t means so much more. so many anthems and parties listening to his music. I grew up with avicciis music and now he is dead.  he was the curt kobain of our generation, rest in piece
Damn this made me cry. 
Awesome. But I don't understand who would thumbs down the video
Domtoren Clock Tower. Here's s video that talks about the history, shows the inside, and shows the person who plays the music and how it's done. 

[Link](https://youtu.be/6CQgzqYuo04)
What a terrible song
That’s in Amsterdam right? Think it’s the Neuvekerk but too lazy to google
I imagine an Arduino-based MIDI -> church bell interface. 

If that's not a thing, it should be.
That's the best ad I've seen for Christianity in a while.
I've been there! Not mind blowing but I thought the people of the internet should know .
Who?
Avicii? 
Is this a musician most Americans haven't heard of or am I just out of the loop?
Have you heard levels?
Never heard of the dude before.
I can hear the song that was meant to be played and it’s inpressive with the bells the have, but fuck it sounds so bad! It literally hurts my ears and brain listening to this, I bet it’s better live. It sounds like fuzzy static, and not just this song but all the other ones this tower has done.
Prob not real bells just speakers playing bell samples of the melody
All due respect, it would make more sense to do this for Barbara Bush than for Avicii
I took communion in Vatican 
to show PJP that I was cool
When I swallowed that shit Zinger was pope and he was such a tool,

dfid they killem 
Prepared to get downvoted to oblivion but I was hoping his music would die with him
Why is avicii's death such a big deal, not even terror attacks seem to get this attention well done world.
literally who
Yep, [here it is](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KeEiKJ0pIfA).

And here's the guy doing it, showing how he does it [link here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRcOMhgXED0).
Can't forget wintergatan https://youtu.be/6CQgzqYuo04
Who is she?
This was a pretty awesome behind-the-scenes look at what she does at the bell tower! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04


Churches are gender oriented now? Holy shit. 
Thats ahh quite the step down from Bowie don't ya think?
Well apparently it was years of excessive drinking which caused his health to deteriorate in the long term :(
[Here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04&feature=youtu.be) a video about the person playing the song. She's done loads of other songs like this.
I believe it's a Carillon tower where you play it much like a piano, but with big clunky wooden keys.

I even found a video of this particular one playing Black Hole Sun after Chris Cornell died https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04#t=11m22s

edit: Me and the other dude replied at the same time with the same link lol
Domtoren Clock Tower. Here's s video that talks about t...

https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/8dvos8/dutch_church_pays_tribute_to_avicii_after_he/dxqk6r9?utm_source=reddit-android
There's someone reading sheet music hammering it out 
They held their phone the wrong way. Amateur mistake, really.
Different bells make different sounds, get a bunch and hit them in sequence.  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04
Did Avicii wear flannel shirts often or something?
When I started going through his songs to see if I knew of him, I realized my work plays that shit constantly,.
I played Levels for my mom and told her about Avicii and his passing. She knew the song instantly and uses it to work out. 
Right up there with Cornell and Cobain too.
Same here. The loss of avicii is a bigger loss than literally anyone else in edm would’ve been. It’s tragic and a huge loss for the music community. 
People can say whatever they want about the new trilogy, but the amount of excitement and joy everyone seemed to have when a new trilogy was announced was so endearing. The entire world celebrated, people from different generations got together. We don’t see that happen often enough 
How would you compare an average redditor's  psychology to that of an average citizen of Utrecht?
How recently did the scaffolding come off?
His biggest legacy is helping make EDM mainstream, and producing music that was always close to his ethos while appealing to a large audience. There are very few artists who have been able to strike the balance that Avicii did.
I'd totally forgotten that Seek Bromance was made by Avicii. Such a phenomenal tune that transports me straight into highschool nostalgia. RIP indeed.
Is there any way to listen to this on Android ? I click the link, abrowser opens up. I click open spotfiy and it opens the Google apps page for it. I click open Spotify and it just goes to my home screen.  
Didn’t he not synthesize his own sounds and samples...? Made some catchy songs though.
He SUCKED and a musician. He made pop songs, he didn't make anything exceptional. "EDM" is a genre of electronic music.
I stayed in Utrecht about two weeks ago and climbed the Domtoren. Nearly had a panic attack as I got to the top but the view was amazing
Oh is that where Armin had his big ASOT 850 show at? I never knew what city he was referring to. 
*It's like a feckin fairytale, or something.*
I passed through there not 8 hours ago on my way to Munich! I missed out!!
20 minutes my ass
Love Utrecht. It's so beautiful.
It might not be somebody's thing.
Don't forget to visit Musuem Speelklok! The Marble Machine is now there!
If I grew up on a farm, and was retarded, Utrecht might impress me. But I didn't, so it doesn't 
My favourite city! I lived there for 4 years. Loved every moment of it.
No official statement, but if you watch his documentary, it will become clear he had a lot of issues. 

Alcoholism resulted into pancreatitis that always kept bugging him, he had severe anxiety, his galbladder and appendix ruptured and had to be removed, he did 800+ shows in 5 years, didn't eat properly and was a heavy tobacco user (snus+smoking). Most likely the acute pancreatitis was what did him in. 

Avicii was quite an introvert and in his words he said that he would take 4/5 drinks before every set to ease his nerves and make him perform better, then of course after his sets there would be more drinks I suppose. He used to look at other DJ's and they did it as well, so he thought he could live like this too. 4 Years of this lifestyle, until he got hospitalized in 2013 and diagnosed with the pancreatitis. 

Avicii: True Stories is the documentary the info is from and follows him closely. Then there are still things that the documentary doesn't talk about, possibly drugs and what not, quite sad...
complications from chronic alcoholism: pancreatitis is the one I remember
Something related to hardcore alcoholism.
last I heard no official cause yet but drinking or possible alcohol abuse involved supposedly
He struggled with alcoholism in the past and his death was just a result of the what that did to his body. He didn't OD or anything, he'd just already done irreparable damage to himself while he was struggling with addiction. He'd stopped touring in 2016 because he wanted to focus on his health and get better, and that's honestly what hits me the most. He wasn't still drinking in excess, he was genuinely trying to live a healthy life but the damage was already done. So, so sad. 
It all started with a pounding sensation in his arsehole and turned into full blow AIDS
Wake me up and without you
Darude - Sandstorm
youtube some of his songs. If you have ears you've probably heard his music.

shame that he's gone. he was a great artist
You'd had to have been under a musical rock for the last decade not to have at least heard his music in passing, either in any bar/club, in commercials, etc.
Dance music is very popular and very important in the netherlands
Hey I'm probably a lot younger than you, but please don't feel like that! There's days when even I feel like that on reddit and it's just a matter of whether you participate in certain scenes or not. But if you look up his music I guarantee you've atleast heard it in a restaurant or gym before. 
May I know how old you are?
Netherlands. 

Also, the Dom tower is not used as a church presently. :) 
This isn't really a church anymore btw
Lol
....thats a mumphord and sons song....

Thats the Dom in Utrecht
You got "kerk" right..
Mind=still intact 
It’s avicci not the who 
"title has the name Avicii in it" Asks if its avicii.

Bruh come on.
Yes
Yeah, the guy named after the lowest layer of Buddhist "hell."
I'm sure you've heard some of his songs without realizing. He was incredibly popular in the US but really around the world. Look up some of his stuff, you'll recognize it. Wake me up and without you are some of his most well known songs. 
Nope it is real bells 
American political figures dying on a natural age isn't really noteworthy in The Netherlands. 
Maybe they did do something, she has no music to play and anyhow they aren't American. 
That's nonsense. This isn't in America. 
/r/iamverybadass 
You're joking right
And [Linkin Park](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4BYMKCuuxDY)
I thought it was a computer program that played the songs. After seeing the guy actually playing them made me cry even more
I can't imagine learning to play on that AND THE WHOLE TOWN HEARING ME PRACTICE.  I can't stand the sound of my own failure when it's just me in the room...
Actually that's a different church in a different city. I believe the Utrecht one (the one in OP) is done my computer (I know the girl that used to be the head of the committee that runs that tower. It's called the Dom tower and is in my favourite little city in Europe - Utrecht. I'll even be there next week, woot woot!)
The Domtoren's carillonneur is a very nice woman who often does this. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04 You linked the carillonneur for Wert in your second video
[The transitions from inside to outside are really cool in that video.](https://youtu.be/6CQgzqYuo04?t=12m27s)
This is immediately what I thought of!
The church!
The person who does the bells dum dum 
Other than that you’re an asshole, what point are you trying to make?
That’s pretty rude 
That's pretty shitty of you man, they were two artists in two completely different genres, it's pretty hard to say one was better than the other.
Lol jerk-off
🔺
That's probably the fastest gilding I've ever seen.
What? I was asking how they made the music. 
Oh my God I'm fucking dying lol
Ah, the old Reddit [Avic-aroo!](https://www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/comments/8drbm4/mediterranean_sea_overlaid_onto_the_us/dxq41tr/?context=3)
wow gilded already
So they locked him up in a tower to play the carillon?
unexpected putin
jesus
Lol I don't think the dutch church helped with that.
It's the day after 4/20, everyone. Give him some room
/r/jesuschristreddit
Well alrighty then 
Whaat?? I meant why are we here... in this canyon? What was all that stuff about god? Do you wanna talk about it? 
They really should have ear plugs for that, so should that lady who runs the thing.
I guess great minds think alike, haha.
Definition a carillon. The carillon player at my college’s chapel gave free lessons to students who were interested, and it’s such a cool instrument.
>Dome Tower Tower
Always, basically
It was totally out of left field too. Seemed like he was healthy or at least on the path to being healthy and was making music again. He’s given us so much, but it hurts knowing he still had a lot to give. So young. 
Eh, Robert Miles dying last year was pretty tragic, though he was a bit older and had cancer, so it wasn't super unexpected.

Still though, I guess for people in my age bracket Robert Miles - Children was the song a huge number of people will tell you that got them into electronic music.

A lot of the pioneers of modern electronic music though are getting up there in age too and, well, the scene is pretty much related to massive amounts of drug use. It sucks to lose them young, but it comes with the territory.
That’s not right. People need to be like reddit and find what’s bad about things and focus on that. 
Well is a average user a American?

100% agree. Innovative yet managed to keep his signature sound. 
Hasn’t David Guetta been making EDM mainstream since forever?

And on another note, hasn’t EDM been mainstream since the 90’s?
I think the only producers who have had more long term impact on the electronic music scene are Calvin Harris and Deadmau5. Calvin revived a genre and Deadmau5 created one.
Try searching for avicii - the full discography it should pop up on Spotify. 
 r/lewronggeneration
If all of his music is pop to you then it’s not worth arguing. Go back to whatever you listen to. Art is subjective anyways. It can SUCK for you but have an impact on others. Have a good day. 
>Thats just like, your opinion, man. What have you done for the world today?
[deleted]
*How can all those canals and bridges and cobbled streets and those churches, all that beautiful fucking fairytale stuff, how can that not be somebody's fucking thing, eh?*
[Google says](https://www.google.com/maps/dir/amsterdam/utrecht/@52.2300452,4.856084,11z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m14!4m13!1m5!1m1!1s0x47c63fb5949a7755:0x6600fd4cb7c0af8d!2m2!1d4.8951679!2d52.3702157!1m5!1m1!1s0x47c66f4339d32d37:0xd6c8fc4c19af4ae9!2m2!1d5.1214201!2d52.0907374!3e3) it's 23-25 minutes from Amsterdam Zuid to Utrecht Central. Is that not accurate?
I just ball-parked it, I have no idea, I'm usually asleep. 
Waterlooplein > utrecht centraal is een half uur, dinsdag nog gedaan.
So did I! Did you study there perhaps? 
What is the doc called?  
the hell is wrong with you?
The start of the video is Levels as well I think
I wanna hear this guy play Jeff Mills. 
He was a DJ. There are more of them. 
And who are you to tell 
Thanks!
Dutch is a strange language. That said English is not great either 
See
I didn’t even think about that, you make a good point.
/r/iamveryedgy
Nah i definitely want churches to toll for a drug abuser dying that's the society i want
I wish modern architecture had bells and shit. 
And [The Marble Machine Song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04)

That moment when they recognize numb
That was phenomenal. This thread is somber but the music is powerful 
When I hear this I know it’s 11:33.
In this case it's a woman, actually. :)
That’s the worst sounding computer program i’ve ever heard 
I'm guessing that Bowie is a better artist than avicii. Seems kinda obvious, really.

-edit:not my opinion (don't care much for either artists music) , I'm just helping /u/Ihavetobethatguy understand the point above - 
ahh, my bad.
FruityLoops
How can you let that one fly this high over your head?
Avicii and other EDM producers use something called a DAW (digital audio workplace), it’s a place where you can sequence different patterns, tweak synths and such and also create new sounds
People who drink a lot and do a lot of drugs tend to be more creative
Excessive drinking strikes again!
so was he :(
so was avicii :(
Hold my bell rope, I'm going in!
Legit, I always carry earplugs on me bc I'm a bitch about my ears.
Thank you both! I'll check it out 
Dom means church with a bishop in dutch and german, this church does not have a dome. Clock tower is a bit redundant because the church is only the tower but other churches have multiple towers so it is not that bad to say which tower it is.
He was so unbelievably talented - It’s hard to believe he’s gone
He definitely wasn't healthy, unfortunately. He had acute pancreatitis because of excess drinking in the past BUT he quit touring live to really focus on his health and get better and I think that's what makes it so sad. He did struggle with alcoholism in the past but was really trying to move past it and live a better life and it still caught up to him in the end. His death was truly a loss. 
I can't believe they didn't pander to my tastes!
Yes~ish~
Guetta and SHM were both influential in that realm. You can’t compare 90s EDM to the way the genre took over the world from 2009 to 2015/6. 
Really depends on where you live.
Which genres are these that were revived and created?
I think there are many more, just look at Daft Punk for example
Doesn't work. Says nothing found. 
That’s funny because I went to Bruges on my trip too 😂

Stayed in Antwerp and took a day trip to Bruges to visit cousins. 
It's about 30 minutes max including stops.
Zuid could be anywhere up to 40 minutes away by bike depending on where in Amsterdam you live. From other train stations you might have to make a transfer, which slows you down as well. Furthermore, the train station in Utrecht is actually a fair walking distance away from the medieval center of the city (a.k.a. the interesting part). You'll definitely want to account for about an hours travel one way.
Yeah from Amsterdam zuid its only that but from Amsterdam centraal its already   40 minutes
Yes I did my PhD there. That's how I was able to get a visa from Australia to stay there for so long :)
Added it. It was on Netflix for a month, but they pulled it off yesterday. There is no other way to watch it I think. If you search well, you can find it though...
Literally the drop for wake me up
man.. this is the most mean-spirited thing I've seen in a while
Fuck you dude
Don't be a dick. He was a person not just "some dj". He made music people enjoyed and he was loved. Show some decency.
I think it's unfair to label him as just "a DJ" and that there's "more of them." 

Avicii had a unique sound that was unmistakable; go into a club and listen to the first few seconds of the song, and you'll know it's him. 

Avicii was one of the biggest influencers of what EDM is today. He brought it to the mainstream, and his music is listened to and loved by millions. 

There are many more DJs out there, true. But not a lot will ever be able to do what Avicii did - take EDM from the underground rave scene to an international phenomenon. 

He was an artist, one of the best ever. He is loved, and will be missed.
I mean, aside from the way you pronounce the letter g is there anything particularly bizzare about Dutch?
r/cringe
Why shit though?
Do you mean all modern architecture, or modernist churches? Because a lot of modernist churches do have bells and shit. 
Like this?: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ntmyIKETTs
Why bells though?
Le wrong generation
Do you listen to yourself when you speak?
Watched for Marble Machine Song, also got a bit of Black Hole Sun at 11:20
In the second video's description:
> Carillonneur: Frank Steijns

Pretty sure that's a guy's name...
I think the person in the video is a man? 
I think you’re wrong, but I’m not 100% sure I feel like correcting you. 
Ah so any musician that doesn’t have the noted legacy of David Bowie doesn’t deserve a tribute. Got it 
Not really sure how you can directly compare the two, they were very different musicians. Bowie had a more engaging persona, but I wouldn't say that makes him an objectively better artist.
Art is subjective.
I don't want to laugh at this and it wasn't even funny until he replied... fuck...
How did you even get gold..? o.o
Haven't heard that software name in a while.
Probably because of his years of excess drinking
Uh, he shut down his career because of it. Massive alcoholism definitely does not stimulate the creative process. 
Nope! creative people are smarter and see what's fucked up with the world- this makes them sad, so they drink and get high. Ask me how I know!

On a serious note, imagine getting to his career peak and finding it hollow, that you're still the unhappy person that you've always been. Where do you go from there? That'll make you drink yourself to death.
When i first introduced my friends to aviccii and edm they said to me what is this" beautiful sound" and who is this amazing artist...i said this is aviccii one of the greatest artists of our time. there eyes were wide and we all became huge edm fans. if we immortilize his music, future generations will appreicate his songs and music like never before. [this quote means so much to me. his songs were to good to be forgotten. live forever aviici in my heart! arrivederci!](https://hallofquotes.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/1b8df697fcbff4f9a9f36b9281755e64--avicii-lyrics-beautiful-lyrics.jpg)
I rode that commute for 4 fucking years I can walk from my home to the track it departs from blindfolded, I *know* it's exactly 27 minutes.
[No it isn't](https://www.ns.nl/reisplanner/#/?vertrek=Amsterdam%20Centraal&vertrektype=treinstation&aankomst=Utrecht%20Centraal&aankomsttype=treinstation&tijd=2018-04-24T18:59&type=vertrek), it's about 26 min, barring delays and construction of course.
Cool! I did my exchange studies at HU back in 2014 :)
They have a lot of weird sayings I guess. Oh well peanut butter.
Lots of vowels and vowel combinations. For example "ui" is a sound I rarely encounter in other languages and most non-native speakers can't pronounce it properly. 
 
Why male models?
Everyone's got to sometime
I think they’re saying that bells should no longer be used strictly for churches and schools but should be included in the design of all buildings. Imagine your favourite architectural wonder.. now picture it with bells and shit. 
Also tons of memorials have bells in their design. Buildings, monuments.
Why shit though?
Like if you're a 1740s kid. 
The second video is of a different town. The first is Utrecht, where the carillonneur (-euse?) is a woman.
The Domtoren's carillonneur is a very nice woman who often does this. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CQgzqYuo04
It looks like a man from what I see so i don't really know
The second video is a man, but of a different town (Weert). The first video is in Utrecht.
The current beiaardier is a woman named Malgosia Fiebig
That's exactly why when you join Reddit you immediately unsubscribe from r/music. You can't have an opinion in music without it being hated on because they don't have legacy status.
If that's the point you're trying to make all power to you! 
But you can still argue some things are objectively better than others. Wayne Shorter is in a different league compared to epic sax guy, but guess who's been searched for and listened to the most. I've played video games and seen films that are objectively bad, but still enjoyed them
Agreed. 
ahh, my bad. 
waaayyyy too soon. give it a few days and laugh all you want.  that's about how long our attention spans are these days anyways.
mate I have no clue
? Its still really popular
Ayy Lmao
I think it would be fair to say creative types tend to be more drawn to mind altering substances for better or for worse 
> Nope! creative people are smarter and see what's fucked up with the world- this makes them sad, so they drink and get high. Ask me how I know!

In all fairness, you have to have a very high IQ to understand...
Good point friend, stay strong
Until NS shenanigans that is.
Im doing that later this year. Any tips/recommendations?
Dat hits als een plyers op een pig, dude..
Shit male models, so hot right now!
Ahhh okay. So she’s the one most likely in the Avicii tribute then?
Are you actually stupid or are you just a dick?
Drug abuse and alcoholism is not funny! But I can’t help but laugh now 
Fuck that i laughed as soon as the second plane hit the tower
Best way to get gold. Sheer ignorance.
Really? I had no idea. No judgement here. I just remember hearing about it and trying to use it when I was in high school (I'm over 30), and was amused it was still around in the world of Logic and what not. 
I see that you too watch Rick and Morty
ESN does a great job at arranging different student events. Go to many a possible in the beginning and get to know many different people. Then you will make new friends easily. Also travel around in the Netherlands, it is a beautiful country :)


Don’t fail
If I say Both, will that give you a happy tingle? 
I wanted to downvote but the parody of edginess is actually pretty fun.  Got me to smile exhale.
[Heres a list of the most prominent users (including Aviici)](https://www.image-line.com/flstudio/powerusers.php) I use Logic X but FL is definitely very popular.
Because it's not known as Fruity Loops anymore, its now FL Studio
