Stolen My Heart! Vader’s Dream - A Visitation From Padme by Kirk Reinert

This makes me feel so sad.


Kinda adds to the tragedy of Vader. Puts into perspective a little more.
This is such a beautifully tragic picture especially after you read the description on the artist's website: http://www.kirkreinert.com

Kirk Reinert was personally chosen by George Lucas to participate in the 'Star Wars Art: Visions' project. The basic idea that George had was to create an interpretative art project that would bring together a variety of artists from different disciplines, all of whom would do their own vision of Star Wars. The artists would be free to create whatever they wanted as long as it was in the spirit of the movies.

Kirk Reinert's painting titled: Vader's Dream- A Visitation from Padme

"I will safe keep your good heart, Dear One, until you are ready for its return."

Kirk's comments: I wanted the general nature of this dream scene to feel very organic and human, as opposed to Vader's real-life loss of humanity, both physically and spiritually. Vader is dreaming of himself as Anakin, a fallen knight, in the arms of Padme, who has visited this dream with a purpose and a message. There is an island of peace here, but also the feeling of unease and impending doom on the horizon. The dark side, sensing the presence and threat of the light, sends its minions to pull Anakin/Vader back into chaos and madness.

I've placed a few subconscious layers in the painting for Anakin/Vader: the mechanical and bio-mechanical umbilical cords attached from under the water; Anakin is wearing what is partially Darth Vader armor & partially Jedi Knight robes; his hands are crossed representing a prisoner, Padme is wearing the headpiece that she wore in the beginning of their relationship but she also has the plants and flowers in her hair from her funeral. Anakin never saw her funeral so he has no reference to dream these specific flowers, therefore, Padme's presence in this dream is real and not conjured from Anakin/Vader's subconscious.

...and from the art nerd in me: Padme's pose was inspired from both a 12th century woodcut of 'A Troubadour's Representation of Love' and George Frederick Watts' painting, 'Hope'. Both also share an appropriate sentiment in my painting.
Hate to be the minion whose job is to wake him that morning. 
Really beautiful work
For some reason, Anakin's face looks like [Billy Hargrove.](http://s.newsweek.com/sites/www.newsweek.com/files/styles/lg/public/2017/11/03/wvpublicityprelaunchastill7.jpeg)
It’s like a depiction of Greek mythology but it’s Star Wars.
Perhaps one of the most Shakespeare\-esque visuals for Vader's tragedy. 
I love how Vader holds onto the darkness yet is reaching for the light. It really says the truth about his character how he wants to do the right thing yet in the end he will always be attached to the darkness, which echoes through his whole family line.

Edit: I also love how Padme is in the direct light of the moon and not touching the water below, but Anakin is in the shadows with his legs immersed in the black liquid beneath him. This really is a powerful image. The storm behind them also shows the struggle Anakin had to try to save Padme while also turning his back on the light
I love how he is still died to the dark, even in this dream.
That's beautiful and heart breaking. 
Kirk Reinert sounds like such a badass name.
It’s so stunning and painfully sad
Star Wars always was more of a space fantasy than science fiction. If it was more focused on fatasy elements it might be more interesting.
I like the idea, but what is with her neck? I've never seen anyone be able to bend their neck like that.
I feel it Grandfather, the pull to the light. 
Awesome looking armor for Vader.  Just a little more robes with the iconic armor on the shoulders.  Well done.
What's with the birds?
I cried.. Fantasic artwork 
More of this pls
I cried. Really resonated with me. It’s now my background, a reminder to *resist*.
The thumbnail on my phone look like Earthworm Jim.
Star Wars meets the Renaissance 
Are they sitting on Vader's bald head?
long neck tho
What is this *Berserk* doing in my *Star Wars*?
Wow this is beautiful. I love it. 
What books or comics show their love for each other ?
Anakins story bums me out so hard. Don’t feel too bad for the guy since he killed tons of kids and shit but damn, he has a tragic story 
That is just awesome!

The prequels are the most underrated movies I've ever seen. 
OOba 
She looks more like Leia than like Padme to me
Is that... The immortal iron fist?
This is actually really cool. Makes me wish they were still together when he went bad and she stayed with him for a while until he drove her away. 
Umm what? 
Anakin was weak-minded.
If only they seemed like they were in love in the movies...
Have you heard the tragedy of Darth Vader, the wise?
There’s another piece of art that made me feel similarly, showing the Imperial invasion of Naboo and Vader visiting Padme’s grave.

I actually think a Vader movie set not long after Revenge of the Sith could work really well. 
The clone wars tv show adds a lot more perspective as well. I don’t want to spoil anything but if you haven’t seen it then you should. It adds a lot to the anakin story 
It's always fascinating hearing the backstory of how an artist came up with a particular piece. This one is especially interesting.
This is so beautiful. 
Hauntingly beautiful, thanks for the added info
Why don't more people have the Visions artbook?  It's fantastic.
So but no explanation of the bright orange glow in the middle of the piece?
I recognized [Hope](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hope_(painting)) immediately. Great reference.
Now I can't help but think of those little yellow Minions.

Banana, Lorb Baber?
As a divorced man, I can honestly envisage Vader being 'taunted' by dreams like this as I have. What coulda-shoulda-mighta-been.
lol exactly my thoughts.
Padme looks more like Carrie Fisher than Natalie Portman.
That’s what I was thinking. Like we’ve entered a Star Wars “renaissance”.
She is leaning the other side of her body into his, which allows her to lean her head. Is this not evident?
Part of what you're seeing is her shoulder muscles. It's not all neck. If you're looking at it as all neck, notice that her shoulder strap is right at her shoulder blade, which is not all of the shoulder.

Probably not a comfortable position, but a romantic one.
I thought so too until I saw one of the earlier comments point out that her pose is inspired by another historical painting called "hope"
Symbolism
Scale
They are the embodiment of darkness the think Anakin wants to escape but Vader is so drawn to the water is the same way. The robotic Vader is drawn to the birds and immersed in the water but the body of Anakin is with Padme but still in the shadows 
Sworn enemy of the hand?
The clone wars tv show makes it pretty clear they’re in love which is nice. It’s a really nice supplement to the movies if you haven’t seen it. I highly highly highly recommend it. 
I might be a minority here but they seemed plenty in love to me. 
Darth Vader the Chosen? 
It’s a story literally everybody tells because it is the original Star Wars story. 
Darth Vader the one who was on the Council but was not granted the rank of Master?
No.
It’s not a story obi wan would tell you
If you could link me to the artwork, that would be great. I agree with the movie idea. A movie based on Darth Vader not too long after episode 3would be a treat. 
Vader hunting down the remaining jedi would be awesome.
Yeah, and we’d get to see him decimate some rebel scum. 
It's on my "to watch" list, for sure.
Boba Fett read this and jumped back into the Sarlaac Pit
I could see it. 

Idda da ho gund! Pffffft!!
[Anakin’s Theme ](https://youtu.be/OLQ-rCSbFeQ)  does a good job of conveying that feeling of yearning for lost love. I had my person walk out on me and I had a good cry listening to it while relating to parts of Vader’s pain. 

I now realize this might be the nerdiest thing I’ve ever done.
Tbh, I wasn’t even married but dated a girl for about 2 and a half years before she cheated on me. I randomly get “taunted” as well. Granted it was less than a year ago when it happened and I assume they’ll permanently stop at some point but I feel what you’re saying 
I want to upvote you, but at the time of writing this comment, you have 66. So please accept my BobaFettNod.gif instead. 
I think it’s the fact that her neck looks very long, at least to me it did
If you watch the clone wars and read the comics you can actually just replace the prequels entirely - Darth Vader's comics flashback to the battle on mustafar and the kanaan (and other) comics cover order 66
I’ve watched a few episodes but I shouldn’t be required to watch 30 hours of a tv show to get the point that they’re in love. It’s not like they don’t give padme and Anakin enough alone time on screen in the movies, the love scenes are just done so poorly. In the movies they convey their love by saying it out loud. In wooden conversations with classic George Lucas romantic lines like “so love has made you blind?” 

It’s the same thing with Anakin and Obi-Wan’s relationship in the movies. I’m sure they have a great kinship in the clone wars show but in the movies that is expressed in dialogue in an exposition-heavy elevator ride at the beginning of Episode II. You’re supposed to show, not tell.
I agree with you. They just didn’t feel the need to draw out the romance because there was a bigger story to tell. 
Reddit is obligated to take a shot at the Prequels every time they are mentioned 
Lord Vader, the First of the Last.
Hell even the sequels are in a way about Darth Vader’s legacy, just as much as they are about the legacy of the main 3 OT characters.
May I sit while you tell this story?
I thought not. It's not a story the Jedi would tell you.
https://i.imgur.com/0IrRB9O.jpg
Order 66: A Star Wars Story
I think that is because it is exposed as he is leaning his head back. 
I personally think that everyone should watch the prequels since they’re official movies but yeah you can definitely skip them if you really wanted to
Yeah I feel you. I agree that the prequels aren’t the best and fail to show the intensity of some relationships but I’m glad they made the tv show to make up for it. You don’t have to watch it no but it does add a lot to the story including some more characters. 
The tragedy of darth vader the crispy
Is it because there are no Jedi left?
Thank you. That's a great piece of art. 
Damn that’s powerful stuff. Helps link him as Vader and Anakin for me, which I always have trouble doing
To me it’s something with Padme’s shoulder. Like to me it looks like her shoulder and neck are one big thing. Does that make sense?
I agree, I think they provide great context to the comics and shows. Knowing how mediocre the prequels we're in general makes me appreciate the supplemental materials that much more. That, and the prequels do have they're good moments.
I enjoyed the prequels for their themes and asthetic. While the action was fun as a kid, now that I'm older I've found it less and less enjoyable to rewatch the prequels. I can empathize with the reasons as to why the prequels werent fantastic, and they aren't terrible movies. But if youre a fan on a rewatch binge and you want a different perspective I'd say it's worth to watch tcw and read the appropriate comics :)
I made an edit of the prequels that puts them all into one movie. I think it helps at least a little with the love story since you can see the arch across one movie.
I’ll have to watch it some more! I give the prequels a hard time because I know they could have been better, but make no mistake- I love them! It’s just crazy because I had an insane crush on Natalie Portman when these movies came out and now I rewatch them and can barely watch her scenes without cringing.
This made me LOL
I personally think that the prequels were really fun to turn off your brain and watch. Dont worry about how good the acting is, dont think about the bad dialogue, dont worry about how a small child can do qhat adults cant, just watch it to be entertained, which the prequels can do quite well. I still consider the prequels to have somw of the best fights
*cough* They're better than the originals
Ahaha yeah I know exactly what you mean. We probably feel the same way towards them. You’d love the tv show, I guarantee it haha. It starts getting dark after the second season I believe, that’s when it gets really good 
That's an excuse for poor film making, It doesn't have to be Oscar worthy acting or screenwriting to be good. I shouldn't have to not pay attention to be entertained either.   

Even in the action category I always felt that the action carried little emotion through the prequels up until RotS.  If you have to watch/read 2 to 3 other mediums to understand the full weight then it's a bad movie.


