Real life bug

"I was lagging bro, I swear. This game is bullshit"
He's tied up if you look at it. This is a 10 second clip, therefore I cannot judge this as "sad". For all I know, that cat is pampered all day and his human took him for a walk but had to run into a shop that doesn't allow cats for 20 seconds to grab a newspaper.
https://i.imgur.com/N1aPzHH.gifv
EXPLAIN THIS
lol the cat stops and shows her he's not stuck, so she'll walk away and he can keep doing his thing
Michael Jackson's lost his cat
My man!
There is a glitch in the Matrix!
My cats just give up on life if i put a leash on them, kudos to this fella for tryin.
deity games not patching up serious bugs again. its the I M M E R S I O N that matters 

/r/outside 
He's just trying to get to 10,000 steps.
Not a bug, thats a cat.
r/glitchinthematrix
OK Go's cat
    Host has disconnected from the match
r/outside 
laaaaag

Gotta unlock that region I guess...
Cat.exe has stopped working
https://i.imgur.com/c9V7I7h.gifv
NPC stuck in invisible terrain
No, that's a cat.
Early access games
I like how when the lady walks past he's like oh I'm good. Then goes right back to his business. He got game!
This cat has dreamt of becoming the first ever mime cat for all it's life. Finally, it's dream has come true.
For real what is going on >< 
What upsets me about this is when the cat stops and walks over to the hooman they just walk away without giving the kitty any scritches. 
I thought that cat was moonwalking...
In his mind, he's in the Oasis
Kitty are you OK? Kitty are you OK? Are you OK kitty? 
You've been hit by
You've been struck by
A smooooth criminal
a glitch in the matrix?
Cat treadmill: the new trend in feline exercise.
Whoa!  Deja vu.
Peanut Oil.
"This area is not yet unlocked"
Made in China. 
It's a feature
Glitch in the Matrix. 
Is this cat named Billie Jean?
Moon walk by meow
This makes me sad...
Feels so gooood!!!
See how he stops for a sec and then keeps going? He's enjoying some Scooby Doo schenanigans.
that's actually a cat, not a bug! 
r/Totallynotrobots
Lol
MJ fan. Just a moon walk. Don't bother 
Cat.exe has stopped working. 
Goddam lag!
#It's tied to the wall....
Bug? That’s a cat.
Having fun
It's a bug in the Matrix. Be ready to fight those Agents. 
Proof that we are in the matrix
You have not unlocked this area 
Ugh lag
/r/outside - cat is obviously getting some bad lag
Bethesda cat.
No, it's a feature. 
That cat is about to deliver a lethal static shock.
A glitch in the matrix. 
r/Outside
My god for a second I thought our computer simulation was on the fritz. 
Me trying to climb a mountain in Skyrim. 
What are you on about, on my screen I can see it walking off into the other shop
I'm so sick of seeing this 
It's not a bug, it's a feature
He’s just doing the moon walk.
Third time posted. The cat is on a leash. 
What?
The glitch in the matrix is real
Michael Jackson trained this cat. Now let's see if it catches its hair on fire. :)
Somebody has to say it.  A glitch in the matrix.
Clearly he is playing a VR game 
*smooth criminal plays*
You can tell the cat is just a loop over another video, the dude walks by and the cat goes to him and then walks back in reverse to the same spot. 
It's common to see cats tied up outside of shops. 
Especially when they are on heat. De sexing isn't as common as it should be. 
Lots of little local shops have cats to get rid of mice and rats.
Kinda Moonwalk
It happens when they change something.
Cat.exe has stopped working
No.. that’s a cat!
People are saying this cat is tied up, but it clearly takes a few steps to the right and decides to go back to the glitched spot.
Treadmill cat does a heckin good exercise 
I didn't half the time looking for a "bug" should have said - real life glitch.
Proof that we're in a computer simulation 
Actually I think you'll find that's a real life khajiit
“Want to pet me? No? K, fuck off then.”
Network lag detected.
That's a cat
r/glitchinthematrix
r/stoppedworking
Michael Catson and the moonwalk?
So Michael Jackson got reincarnated into a cat. 
Bugget cat mechanics.
"Are you going to pet me? No? Cool, I'll just go back to what I was doing."
Wow looks like Michael Jackson was reborn as a cat
He's going. Not places, but going. 
Glitch in the matrix.
Michael Catson 
The matrix is here
Probably likes the feel of the smooth sidewalk when walking in place.
Damn look at him go!... or not go.
Didn't Michael Jackson transmute into a panther in one of his videos? So I guess he mastered the cat moonwalk too,

*After death...*
The
Even the rubber banding is real
Waist high barrier 
Host Migration...
ERROR IN THE MATRIX!!!
Kitty working on his fitness
Michael Jackson would be so proud!
The Micheal Jackson of Cats
More like real life repost. 
"MY MAN!"
We need to fix the matrix!
How is this not /r/outside.
r/glitchinthematrix
moonwalk
That’s not a bug that’s a cat!
Earth’s servers must be down
Its not a bug, his connection just loses all the packets 
IDK looks like a real life cat to me
u/God, please fix this
The matrix is starting to glitch...
We now bring you ... people music...
With your small donation you can help repair the matrix
Someone in the comments said tying cats up outside like this, is common in China.  Is this true, Reddit? 
glitch in the matrix 
Cat is teathered. Just out of the shot is one of those catnip toys that the cat is adamantly trying to walk towards. 
I would expect to see a puppy do this but I thought cats were too smart and lazy for this crap.
When ur cat leans Moonwalking
And the solution for VR walking is... Polished concrete and sock/shoes similar to (or better than) cat paws.
That's not a bug that's a cat
Real life cat*
Cat’s tied 
Michael Jackson didn’t die, he was turn into a cat. 
FLY THE W!
"Go away"
Continues lag waking*
It’s pronounced: unplanned feature

Micheal Jackson’s cat 
That’s a real life cat though
WE LIVE IN A SIMULATION
Cat.exe has encountered an unexpected error.
it's ok, cat's name is "Ubi"
This cat has dreams
This is actually a real life cat
trying to do the MJ’s moonwalk in reverse 
“Move along, nothing to see here hooman.”
Fuck, Been seeing this repost across practically every subreddit for the past 2 days. 

People seriously trying to whore out as much karma as they can from this pic. It got old when it was constantly reposted around 2 years ago.
Looks more like a cat to me
Glitch in the matrix
Move along.  Theres nothing to see here.
https://i.imgur.com/5O68ytX.gif
https://i.imgur.com/IgnDYD9.gifv
You can see it’s on a leash.
[deleted]
I like how the cat just showed the guy he’s not stuck but then immediately returns to the moon walk. 
He's tied up. You can see the string above him. This is so sad.
Quite cruel. It's obviously tied to the building. You can see its range is limited in both directions.
The matrix has glitched.
Cat.exe encountered an error
Gotta reboot cat.exe
I'm in the mood to strut, my A-K ain't even tuck 
I'm a meet you at the club we goin' fuck these hoes up

The Chinese vine is too often borderline animal abuse gifs :/
I believe its fake, but hey you can always ask u/Captain-Disillusion
someones dinner?
General Reposti
Smooooth criminal
r/Tierzoo
NA cat playing in Chinese servers
"fuckin rito!" 
Literally unplayable.
Fortnite in a nutshell.
r/outside
Is this what I think it is? I kinda hope it is...
Cat looks healthy and isn't wigging out at being tied up so this is probably pretty routine for him
I’m more annoyed at the guy who didn’t pet him when he asked for pets. 
Ahh, i see it now the leash can be seen when the person walks away, and in the yellow section of the light midways up, hes tied up fairly high up, and as you said i reckon this guy is pampered and taken on walks and the owner is just gone into the store.
Which is just enough time for the cat to address a quick mani/pedi
He may have receded it as well
"cat.exe" stopped working... i usually just end the task and open it up again.
Ah man. 

I thought it was just a slick fuckin cat. All stationary moon walking. 

To me it looks like he is expected to sit on the little barrel. 



Maybe he is the shop owners cat and likes to hang out there but started either going with people or someone tried to take him thinking he was a stray.


I could also see someone deciding to let him free range during the day then adding a leash after it got dark (until it’s time to go home) out of a worry that he would stroll into traffic. 
Michael Jackson is alive and he’s a cat!
The cat is just trying to keep his heart rate up
Wait cats actually go for walk? Anytime I tried it would be more accurate to call it a drag.
Oooh.  I thought it might be digging on something slippery.
[removed]
>_"You haven't unlocked this area yet..."_
As a new parent anyone fumbling like that near traffic makes me wanna vomit into someone elses mouth
Damnit, who’s got the guy shoveling gif?
Norwich in the house
I've been watching a lot of Captain Disillusion. This seems fake.
HOW DID HE STAY UP THAT LONG?!?!?

Poor fellow is tied to the wall and trying to escape. Take another look at it. 
Billie Jean is not his lover.
Glitch in the matrix, obviously.
Just on the other side of the pillar is the owner with a very thin leash. They let the cat have a little slack to say hi to the stranger, and then reel it back in a bit for further moonwalking.
yah some1 explain this please
Packed lunch.
A programming error in the matrix. Nothing major. A patch was installed a few hours ago. Move along battery.
Cat is enjoying the novelty of the smooth, cool concrete so is gliding his paws across like a little mini kitty moonwalk. *smooth criminal* 
It's tied up
Just on the treadmill
Nothing to see here
He looked at his fitbit and realized he had a lot of steps left to hit his goal. 
Or is it Michael Jackson reincarnated?!
Does an excellent moonwalk better than me.
Wouldn't it be moving backward then?
It's the ~~moon~~catwalk
Looking good !
Déjà vu!
That guy was this close to turn into an agent. Phew!
The real black magic is the cat attempting movement with a leash
r/Tierzoo is the same but with animals
r/Tierzoo is the same but with animals
/r/StoppedWorking
It’s tied up and trying to escape...
r/Tierzoo is the same but with animals
You can see the leash on the upper right connecting the cat to the building. And when the cat moves to the right it snags as it tries to move forward. Look near the light reflecting off the ground and the guy in the background youll see it
Half 
Calm down, we don't know the context from a 10 second clip... The owner could be right there and they are just out for a walk and he stopped to grab something from a shop..
He tried to approach the person but couldn't because it's tied to the wall. You can see the strand about a few feet above the cat.
the cat is indeed stuck
Why is this sad? That cat could have been there for 38 seconds for all you know
So were they supposed to give it like 10ft of slack while they run into the shop so that the cat can make a trip wire for passerby’s?
What? How is this even remotely "borderline animal abuse"?
...he's on a leash
My fav new YouTube channel I found 😁
happy cake day!
I dunno if it's routine you would think he would have learned not to walk in place by now..
A cat normally wouldn't be walking like this trying to move if it was tied up all day. It'd have realised that it couldn't move and just lay down instead.
Yeah fuck that guy
That must feel so good as a cat, sharpening your retractable claws.
or pedi pedi?
Kek
The cones block your way, like bushes in Pokemon
"You must gather your party before venturing forth."
hahhaah
Reminds me of the waterfalls in pokémon.
are you, by any chance, a bird?
*opens wide*
From one parent to another, it really isn't advisable to vomit into someone's mouth unless you have their consent first. 
You might want to see a shrink about your anxiety. 

New parent or not, that’s a bit of an extreme reaction. 
Be careful shoveling gif. That stuff gets everywhere.
I don't know that you've ever seen a cat trying to escape before, but casually trying to walk away is generally not their preferred technique
Or...or the cat is like "watch this I can be Meowchal Jackson. dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun PISS OF HUMAN dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun" and just does it for the laughs. 





Yes, that is what happened.
Well now I’m sad. :( 
Damn. I thought someone had trained a cat to moonwalk. 

*sigh*
It's definitely a pampered house cat. Not a tied up street cat yes fine (and adorable)
who ties a cat to a wall?
K now explain like I'm 5. 
That makes me a little sad, but it's still actually really funny.
She's just a cat who thinks that I am the one. 

But the kitten is not my son.
It means they've changed something.
[Hee-hee, Shamone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwcgzcHFSTA)
Only one way to tell; put a mirror in front of the cat and see if there's a man in the mirror.
Slow down!

Yes!
I’ve just been in this place before
I don't think so, but I could check with the kitchen.
What did you say?
Oh ok that makes sense 
It’s not tied up, it’s a fake video 
What if he likes it?
It could like the feeling on his paws?  I mean,  cats are weird like that
Maybe he’s conditioned to that tug at the collar to walk for some thing
What about all those hoomans walking and running in place at the gym? I see them there everyday so I'm sure it's routine but they seem to not be learning their lesson either.
Cat's like it. You can get cat wheels much like you can get hamster wheels. https://images.petplanet.co.uk/images/product_images/extra_images/67905/99_Exercise_Wheel.jpg
I have mother f'ing charizard who can breathe fire, yet a bush blocks my way. 
Go for the eyes, Boo!
Knights of the Old Republic reference?
Di's a bird!
Two redditors one mistake
Oh...
I see a volunteer in the audience
Good thing we have you...
Yeah. Definitely makes much more sense. That's a well trained cat. I can't get mine to stop shitting on every object in the house, let alone walk on a leash. 
You forgot a dun 
*Piss of human* is so much grosser than *piss off human*.
Meowcal Catson*
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1s04tEDJVjY
Damn right. That's what happened.
Don't be sad. It's probably out for a walk to the corner store w master, waiting outside like a good little moonwalking pup pup kitty
Cats make it abundantly clear when they are upset. This guy seems at most to be impatient. Maybe bored. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VxFppZJI3tw
Don't be sad. It's probably out for a walk to the corner store w master, waiting outside like a good little moonwalking pup pup kitty
Suppose it could be a bit of a scratching post effect.
My cat likes to do [this](https://youtu.be/uv8jPYuOrkY) for some reason
Don’t kink shame him
He must like it; a cat actually trying to escape its confines is nothing like this level of calm. If he’s not trying to get away, he must be doing it because he enjoys the moonwalk. 
Cats just like to screw with people. 
Well, you didn't teach it 'Cut'.  

Also username checks out.
Nope, Baldur's Gate. I'm playing it right now :D
Dee?
Try multiple cat boxes and unscented litter. Only thing that worked my incredibly stubborn cat.
Chicka chich chich
Okay now I feel better. Thank you. 
Did you mean the human was out for a walk with master? I’m confused 
Lil' ol' kitter.
pup pup kitty (: aww so nicely put! 
No, it's the shop's cat, probably tied up so it doesn't go through some garbage, or because it's on heat. 
Very common sight in China (not the glitch walking mind you) 
Hey humans walk in place on treadmills all the time.  The cat is just at the gym clearly. 
That was my thinking. He doesn't really change direction Except when somebody gets close, so maybe they are having fun?
More like a cat wheel (maybe). Except you'd think the pavement would be hard on its paws after a while.
My cat used to do that to my belly for like 20 minutes at a time.  It was weird, but he liked it, and it seemed like a bonding thing.  Had to have him put to sleep a couple of years ago.  I miss him every day.
I feel like this is a common thing since one of my cats will do this at my backdoor that's a sliding glass backdoor.
Wants to get out. Either that or is trying to scratch the wood on the other size. Get a card cat scratcher. If it continues to do that to the window, it's probably the former. 
Cat’s broken. Send it back for warranty work.
All three of mine do this when were sitting on the front porch they hop up onto the bay window seat and do this.  
Aww, cute.
His kind may not be my kink, but his kink is okay.
Oh! I love Baldur's Gate. Which one are you playing? The old PC version, or the console ones?
Been there, done that. Worked for a few weeks. Now she only uses her litter boxes to pee. She probably gets some kicks out of watching us discover her latest creations or maybe just likes the feel of a different surface each time. She's trained us to not mind it anymore. So there's that.
Haha, I guess ‘piss off human’ took the place of the missing one. 
Bow bow
Forgot a crotch grab too
But the cats name is Seymour. 
But then the owner forgot about him and left him there.

Now be sad again.
Oh pup pup kitters are master transient
Lol* ol' kitter
Yea glitch walking is for people in China. This cat is just a copycat.




.....sorry :/
Wow. Really—it’s common for cats to be tied up like this, in China? 
This is more like moonwalking/sliding around in socks. 

Someone somewhere has almost definitely done something like this and then accidentally leaned forward too much and did a face plant.

Edit: Now that I think about it, this is basically walking on the spot because of very strong headwind.
What happens if you open it? Does your cat go out side or just continue to paw the window?
She just does that on smooth surfaces. Books, boxes, etc.
could be ... my cat did that and when I open the window he flops over and waits for me to close it again so he can resume "striding"


I'll have to admit, I'm a filthy mobile peasant.

♪♫♬ *If it taaaaaaaaaaaaakes foreveereeeer.* 
♬♫♪
Seymour cats.
The hero Reddit needs, but doesn't deserve.
Ah man, the feels
Lol, old pussy

Ftfy
*I will waaaaaaait for youuuuuuu*
F
*
