Mueller playing Jenga

Interesting how quiet the trump family has gotten lately.
They're going down even harder than I could have possibly dreamed. Who *isn't* going to the slammer, is the question at this point. 
Where's Ivanka?
I think it's a brilliant image.  But at the same time, I'm genuinely confused by it (and the sign in it) in light of how I understand the object of Jenga. Doesn't the person taking out the piece not want the tower to fall? 
I honestly hope muller wrecks the whole RNC. Take pence, and the whole lot with trump
Now this is 3D chess!
I know reddit will gang up and say "Of course he's in on it!" but I wonder if Pence has been sufficiently insulated from the corruption to not go down with the others.

(noticed he was one of the blocks)
Visual metaphor.

 Accurate, predictive, suspenseful.

 Absolutely bang on!
As much as it rains on our parade, the only way I can reasonably see him leaving office is a loss in 2020 election unless there is a massive (beyond forecasts) upset in 2018.  He ran on a platform of facts not mattering, he still has 40% of the American people, has Fox news in his pocket, and he's willing to burn anyone that gets in his way.

His supporters don't care how he got into office.  His supporters control their representatives.  Congress knows they'll have rough reelection bids, if they oppose Trump.       
Bottom piece should be Trump
This would also work if it were a house of cards. 
Why is Bannon on the bottom holding everything up? Wasn't he fired?
I love this
The Jaw of Justice would make this pic r/oddlysatisfying
This is brilliant.
This is basically perfect
Iraq has WMD, lies was the first one he pulled ez.
wouldn't it be awesome to have a full time Mueller team of thousands who look down every path for everyone for the rest of each citizens life? No one could hide from this kind of investigation and everyone would be found guilty of something - from lying on tax forms to pirating software. It would be an awesome world. Keep going Bob, leave no stone unturned.
So help me out... Is this a satirical sub that tries to mimic the absurd caricature cultivated at the_donald or is it made up of people who actually believe and support the type of political cartoon posted here?  Or is it a little bit of both? 
Lol you people are gonna feel really stupid when none of this lands in your favor. 

Just like the whole Russian collusion bullshit. 

You guys feel dumb about that too, right?
even more interesting how quiet the Mike Pence has been
You’re right.  It’s been a while since I’ve heard from thing 1 or thing 2
Have we ever heard from Tiffany?
Tiffany. The one they ostracized and thought was the least among them, is the one that will be respected and left standing.
If Donald had his way, on top.
Watch the movie ARBITRAGE.

Richard Gere is basically Trump \(if he weren't a complete moron\) and Brit Marling is Ivanka.
It could just as well be Trump doing it. Pulling out yet one more of his lies to try and stack up his Administration against the *slew* of lawsuits (both civil & criminal) against it.
Every analogy breaks down at some point - this one just quicker than some. :) 
> ...I'm genuinely confused by it (and the sign in it) in light of how I understand the object of Jenga. 

Trump's house is built with lies.  As Mueller uncovers (removes) each piece, the house becomes less stable.  Eventually, we see that not even the foundation or core is based on truth, and it collapses in on itself.
You could also view it as Mueller pulling out various pieces until Trump is the one who pulls the last one that makes the tower of lies come crashing down on itself. 
Pence is in the know but I would be surprised if he was completely in the know. 
ISTR he got elected that way (massive beyond forecasts) upset in 2016.

History does repeat itself
Mimicry. Mueller is just a man. A man we have vested hopes in, but still a man. Whenever a "crusader" for the_turd stops by and begins to list Mueller's past mistakes they never get their desired response of denial and outrage. He's just a man, and we know that.

That being said, some people who come here accidentally fall into the trap of cult-personality. Ironically, that's the exact same thing that happened over at the_donald. It started out as a bit of an absurd pro-trump board...that slowly over time began to see its absurdity as some sort of right-wing scripture. We try and dissuade commenters here from making the same mistake with Mueller.
It's spelled out for you in rule 1.
If by dumb, you mean rock-hard, then yes.

Papadapolous, Flynn, Manafort, Gates...who else? Cohen, for that matter, but that's over the Stormy Daniels thing in all likelihood. Though the Prague trip doesn't look good for him.

The point is: for a bunch of "bullshit", a lot of people are getting lawyers, and/or pleading guilty.

You best buckleup, red-hat. We are just getting warmed up. You like to fuck with people and shit over other people's values and beliefs? Two can play at that game. Come november we are going march over your sorry asses roughshod. And make you watch as we impeach your idiot leader. And you will watch, because you are a projectionist cuck and deep down you'll like it.
Don't move! Special Counsels can't see you if you don't move!
Quietly being prepped to finish term
Since he was the only person who would accept Trump's offer to be his VP candidate... er, I mean accepted the great honor to be the Republican VP candidate, he was running a totally separate campaign, spending as little time anywhere near Trump as possible.  He very much seemed to be using the attention to set himself up for a future presidential run (or auditioning for a show on Fox.)  But it was very much a non-coordinated campaign.

If Pence is going to go down, it would be for his actions during the transition.  Presumably Trump was angling to lift the Magnitsky Act sanctions to reap the rewards from Russia (payment out of the Rosneft sale per the Steele Dossier, getting the "Trump Tower Moscow" to finally go through, etc.) and Flynn was up to multiple crazy plots.  Pence is mostly an inexperienced idiot, but by the standards of the Trump crew, he was one of the most experienced and knowledgeable about the basics of how the federal government actually works.  I assume he was dragged into a lot of stuff due to that during the transition.

We'll see.  I look forward to the Mueller team interacting more with him in the near future.
Soon to be President Pence, unfortunately 
He's at the Summit of the Americas actually doing his job as a surrogate for the President in international affairs. I hate the guy but he actually isn't a bad VP, mostly keeping quiet and doing diplomatic tasks Trump is horribly incapable of. 
the best tiptoe path to the oval office
Or Eric.
Who are things 1 and 2? Is that Ivanka and Jared?
She recently liked a March for Our Lives post. 
I honestly forget that she is part of the Trump family.  
Maybe not respected, though.
She'll be like the WBC daughter that left and told her story.
Ew...and, probably.
[She definitely prefers the top.](https://i.imgur.com/NuSJxgy.jpg)
Can you give me a little info?

Because it is Trump.  Look at the cufflink.
Let's say he knows about lots of the bad stuff. Is this enough to take him down too? You need to prove it, but even then, is just knowing such things enough if he never actively participated?
He was in charge of the transition but he was not granted the rank of co-conspirator
He was planning on using the platform of the race and eventual loss to build a media empire. He was reportedly surprised that he won. 
But the initial post is an actual political cartoon, it isn't satire.  So drill down here, do people here GENUINELY believe that Hannity will somehow be involved in Trump being impeached.  Do people here GENUINELY believe that Trump will be impeached at all?  I ASSUMED it was just a good troll sub, but this is a real political cartoon that someone drew, ostensibly being serious.
Their vision is based on arrogance- shit.
No wait, I was thinking of T-Rex. Run!
I shall hide behind this chair. 
Special council
It's the smart move, but I'm terrified of what he has up his sleeve for when he is on power.
With morher's help of course
Hopefully Trump doesn't remove term limits before that happens. Or else we'll find ourselves in an evangelical aristocracy
I think it refers to Eric and Don Jr
That insult against her will be her saving grace. I think, in these past few years, she realizes that. I hope she is doing well, and I worry that while she may not have much lover for her father, it's possible she's torn up about the potential fate of her siblings. In a desire to please their dad, they got caught in his narcissistic web.
So did they.
Fair point, I just read up about her to see what's she has been doing with her life...and nothing eye-catching pops out. A socialite with modelling/music interests.

That being said, she has a long life as a free woman ahead of her. Plenty of opportunities to do good in the world.

Which is a helliva lot more than anyone else in her family can say.
eww girly germs
Even the guy in the badass yellow jacket knows there’s something weird going on there. 
Also makes sense in terms of it being Trump Tower, under construction. He's building this inescapable clusterfuck for himself.

Also, little hands, LOL. 
Lying about knowledge of Flynn's foreign dealings is not a good way to encourage trust. 
Sucks to get passed over for a promotion. 
Like an unskilled poker player going all in with a pair of dueses and hitting a full house on the river. 
People here have diverse opinions, so I think the answer would be yes and no. Personally, I don't think Hannity has anything to do with the Mueller investigation. I do think there's a small but real possibility of impeachment if Democrats take control of Congress. Bill Clinton was impeached on far less.
Unlike the_D, people here don't seem to be a monolith and everyone has their own opinion. I think Hannity is acting as a coordinated propaganda machine of the administration and that's absolutely ethically wrong and it should be illegal for a media figure to not disclose that they are working on behalf of the government, if it's not already. 

I feel confident that Trump will be impeached. He should have been impeached already if the sitting GOP didn't put their party above the country every fucking chance they get. They knew that the Trump Campaign was in contact with Russians before the election and put their fingers in their ears because it might hurt their chances to win the election. Trump is 100% unfit for office in every sense of the phrase. As for Hannity, he's just another strand of straw in the pile. 
You beat me to it! lol
His attempts to emotionally manipulate her the way he did his sons didn't work.  Ivanka is his favorite, always will be, no one can live up to her.  He wanted Tiffany to be perpetually jealous of Ivanka and always do everything she could to be just like her.  However, Tiffany realized that his affection and acknowledgement isn't worth shit, and opted out of playing his game instead of vying to be second favorite.  
[Imagine how the photographer feels.](https://i.imgur.com/vRErs0g.jpg)
Lol. That's true. I wish they had made them baby hands. 
What is the impeachable offense though? Clinton was impeached for lying to Congress, not his sexual activity. This is where I get lost here. 
But being in contact with Russians isn't illegal. That is the disconnect. It feels like this sub (now) is confident, as you said, he will be impeached, but you don't yet know why. That is madness. You have to have an offense prior to impeachment, not the other way around. 
Did she do an interview or something on this?
Fuuuuck
Why is he obsessed with pretending to be on the phone?
[It's a pretty well discussed topic in the media.](http://people.com/politics/tiffany-trump-strained-relationship-dad-donald/)

>“They always had a strained relationship her whole life, and it got exacerbated by the presidency,” the source says. “It’s gotten much worse now.”

[Note that Tiffany apparently had a pretty good relationship with Ivanka on her own merits.](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/12/inside-ivanka-trump-and-tiffany-trump-complicated-sister-act) 

Tiffany has never made an overt act of rebellion against the family, but there's been subtle things like supporting the increased calls for gun control during the student movement last year.
[I could go on...](https://i.imgur.com/ePkTS6r.jpg)
Makes him *look* like a busy, very important businessman
He's a VERY imprortant man!    He's has bigly business deals to close and women to pay off dammit! Don't worry about the creepy pics.   Just father daughter stuff.
:/
Dude wtf, how did this not raise red flags?
