Get off my territory!

That dog is super lucky they decided to go with the flow
Seems pretty pleased with himself afterwards.
"OFF! OFF! OFF! OFF! OFF! OFF!"
IIRC, this is pretty illegal. That pup could get fined on behalf of the sea lions for violating the MMPA.
Years from now the seal terrier will be a very sought after pupper.  
**FENTON**
Hahaha the dogs hind legs when it’s running towards them lol funny
Hippity hoppity get off my property
Something something marine mammal protection act
Watch out for hop ons. 
I remember the Destiny remake of this gif. Too good...

Edit: I found it

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=oINaxm7QrbM
Those seals should be happy it wasn’t a Canadian Goose after them...
This is pretty messed up that the owner let his dog do this.
Those sealions would be ok if they didn't move lol, would love to see it
Land shark
I’m more interested in seeing how they all got up there 
I love how happy the dog is when he’s running back.  Like “Yay!  I made the big water dogs go home!  I am good boy!”
:/ super illegal ya'll. 
When the buffet closed an hour ago and the manager is tired of the stragglers.
While entertaining, I pretty sure this is illegal. 
[MMPA](http://www.marinemammalcenter.org/what-we-do/rescue/marine-mammal-protection-act.html)
Fuck that dog and its shitty owners. 
[deleted]
Gerald! Get off the rock! 
Wow that is bravery so typical of a dog 
Notice how high the dock rises after they jump off.


The expressions on their faces are priceless
land dog versus sea dogs
Is this a miniature pinscher? As a min pin mom this doesnt surprise me.
Dogs are assholes.
Nope Nope Nope
Dog’s best day *ever*
Good boy! 
Dog chases Gerald and his family back where they belong 
This is what my dog dreamed of when chasing squirrels
That is one salty sea dog 
My work is done here.
Small dogs are god damn fearless.
video source?
Get off my property! 
Notice that he slows down considerably and never actually bites any of the lions.


He's all bark.
WTF! This is private property!
Land doggo vs Sea doggo.... who will win?
“Yea, that’s what I thought!”
U/murfsx
Reminds me a Destiny 1 classic : https://youtu.be/oINaxm7QrbM
Get off your repost?
Lmao. It's amazing how much confidence and a little aggressiveness can help. Good life lesson for everyone. You don't _have_ to be the biggest dog in the room.
I love this dog. 

Its like that skinny gay kid at Abercrombie and Fitch warding off spring break wildebeast in Miami 
He better not jump into the water though, they might retaliate!
Dog is lucky he caught em by surprise 
"FENTON!"
Scary boye 
Dog.
I don’t think this dog is being a jerk. S/he is just chasing away what they perceive as a danger. If this is a mini pincher, they are typically pretty protective also. I think the jerk is the human owner that let their dog disturb these sea animals for no reason. I mean, they are obviously filming it because they thinks it’s funny. Not cool human, not cool.
Bravo ! Fearless dog
I mean imagine a rat just charging at you 
Wouldn’t you be if you charged 8 guys four times your size and they ran away?
Animals being jerks?
Did it walk away ashamed or did it walk away all smug like?
It’s almost like he’s skipping away...!
Myjobboss
Doggo's lucky he didn't become lunch for one's them. 
GERALD!
I'm disappointed that this isn't the top comment.
It would be more of “ORF! ORF! ORF! ORF! ORF! ORF!” 
Yeah it is. It is called flushing. Although it is mostly illegal because people are scaring them away from breeding grounds.
I was confused for a while there until I realized it was MMPA and not MPAA, I couldnt figure out how they dog was fined for pirating movies based on the gif....
OH, JESUS CHRIST! 
Wide stance
dog's* hind legs

    dogs = more than one dog

Possessive nouns!  How do they work?!

https://stepinto2ndgrade.com/possessive-nouns/
proppity*
You’re gonna get hop ons.
Sunbreaker OP
They're sea lions. 
Yeah that was my first thought. 

Bad dog owner, bad owner! Yes you are! Bad owner!
People let their pets harass wildlife a lot.



I feel bad when the pets get hurt because it isn’t their fault, but I also think that the wildlife are usually better off when they are aggressive and get a reputation that scares people off.



That said, geese attack often and are known for it, but people find it hilarious to let their pets or children harass them. Then they find it hilarious when their kids or pets who didn’t know any better get attacked. 
"I'm only a dolphin, ma'am."
....they just shoot up out of the water.
y'all* 
-a Texan
Wtf
It's definitely *not* a golden^retriever. 
Nah, that's a terrier.
Yep. Yep. Yep. Lol. My chihuahua gives my min pin a run for his money though....
They pale in comparison to their owners.
I'd scream and run away. 
I mean honestly, a rat chasing at you would be terrifying 
Kick that shit in the face of it charged at me like that. The rat that is not the dog. Hope I have shoes on, probably won’t.
Right? How stoked would a normal dude be if he ran full speed at a group of NFL linemen and they all shit themselves in terror and were literally climbing over each other to get away? 

I'd have a pep in my step too.
Only 4 times?
When you say 4 times your size, I feel like it's more like 10x your size and 200x your weight for this scenario
40x
Don’t you mean “Jerry!”
So if someone intended to break this law, they could just get a dog?
Bad bot 
Thank u for the tip I just don’t use punctuation unless it automatically does it on its own. 
Wouldnt matter to the goose tho
We recently went to a cafe that allows dogs and Billie my min had a 3 lb chi square up with her. 
Yeah, and you miss and it scurries up your other leg and bites your taint.
Hahaha I'm just picturing some guy running at a probowl offensive line barking and having them all fall over themselves off of a dock into the water.
[let's get outta here!] (https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5AMc1Fre2c) 
more like 8 dudes 8 times bigger.
[G E R A L D](https://youtu.be/KhatWgDgBKQ)
The owner is liable.
I know. I'm just letting you know. 
No fear!!!!! I regretfully am one of those owners that laugh when my 4lb chi thinks he is going to dominate my 13lb min pin... or barks Incessantly at people when they leave/wall towards the door. 

My 4lb chi always has the big dogs at the dog park chasing him (a fence in between) up n down for a straight 30min til the big dogs get too tired. Heh. 
I think my grandfather used to call those kind of guys, bantam roosters. I never looked into it much, so I'd appreciate it if anyone could explain it properly. 
Probably from laughing...
I'm so glad someone linked this before I did. The nerds battle shout still cracks me up to this day!
Sorry guys. I failed to do accurate comparisons of weight on this. 
Pay a street dog under the table 
"You get back here this instant!".
Min isnt allowed to bark but she can be pretty sassy/hard headed. Shes owned me for 9 yesrs and ill never get over her prance. Isn't it adorable how min pins trot? 
It’s because bantam roosters are pretty small and yet crazy motherfuckers that don’t usually care about size 
Google image search shows some very cocky looking cocks.
No worries. Average male sea lion 660 lbs, dog 30ish lbs. Like 22 times bigger x 8 Bros = like 176 times the sea doggo mass. 
Not allowed to bark? Not trying to be offending but I find that a little bit hilarious.

Dogs should probably get to bark though because they are dogs
Sounds like a buddy of mine, only being a genuinely crazy little bastard, his goal seems to be starting shit with the biggest turd in the bowl so he can get his ass properly kicked. I think he likes it.
It’s always the little ones you have to watch out for
It's not uncommon to teach your dog not to bark incessantly like a little brat! Especially the little ones since they generally tend to be "yappy". 

Glad I was able to bring some humour into your day!
Lol yea sounds like the roosters. When they would come at me you always have to launch them with a kick to get them off you. They get distracted for a bit but sure enough the think they can take you again the next day
Well yes that sounds right. If you know how to do that I bet you know way more about dogs than me, because excessive barking is really hard to "fix". At least I find it harder than most other behavioral problems 
