Can we do this later, please?

mental gymnastics
I treat breakdowns like dentist appointments... just take a day off and get it over with
The problem is when the breakdown becomes stronger than you and you can’t hide from it anymore. Then this is way less funny.
Coach Bela forcing you to get that check up with Larry Nassar will do that to ya.

Serious note though, I don’t believe for a second that the Karolyis weren’t aware of the abuse as they are claiming. They were either willfully blind or covering it up.
I hate having to reschedule those.  I try to get them all in on the weekend,  but sometimes I can't.
I thought I was the only one who did this 
Fun fact, if you rearrange the words a little it becomes a haiku!

I almost had a

Mental breakdown but I had

To reschedule it



^Edit: ^Formatting
this is even more depressing since she's actually been sexually assaulted
short millennial poems 
"hmm..am I free anytime to get my shit together?"

*Checks schedule*

"Sorry, no openings.."
Sounds like the text in a Cathy cartoon.
Okay so that's either a shitty bumpersticker, or a 'Cathy' cartoon, right?  Either or, it's totally something my girlfriend's 70 year old whits aunt would LOVE printed on like a huge sweatshirt with cats on it. Arrrrrrg!
If you can reschedule, why not cancel?
Welcome to adulthood :/
Is this a
thing we are
doing now?
This is a haiku 
I'm gonna have to take a tear raincheck
She lives in my town lol 
When people tell me to see a counsellor because I need mental help, I tell them I agree, but I work.
k..
I'm free this evening right as I'm going to bed.
College in a nutshell
Hashtag "adulting"
I have mine on the weekends along with copious amounts of alcohol
Relatable 
#CollegeLife
One of my buddies once Venmo requested her for “losing the olympics.” SB took a screenshot of it and tweeted it, with the reply “uhhh I’m pretty sure [however many medals she won] is not losing.” Then the news picked it up. It was so awesome 
Simone Biles is my celebrity crush. 
That's trivialising mental health issues.
Real title is always in the comments
Miss me with that bullshit.
She'd better watch out for Mental Larry Nassar. 
I also treat it like a dentist appointment. I wait until it becomes an emergency.
ah how i wish i could just take the day off and wait till my brain is not on fire anymore but alas i trudge along knowing that in the grand scheme of things no one cares about my tiny tantrums and if i dont suck it up and show up i might not end up where i need to be :(
Hmm would love a taste of her sweet juicy candy ;P
Let’s get super serious
I saw this as a downward spiral, I used to think and be able to set out time for a mental reset, now my mind is an active hostage negotiation scene
I’m actually worried this is not a joke. Get help if you need it simone!
Willfully blind. I suspect Marta actually retired as team coordinator after Rio because she knew Nassar and all the abuse going on in USA Gymnastics was going to be exposed. 

Also, I figure that Nassar must've had connections to people higher than the Karolyis, because it is very apparent that the Karolyis only care about their own interests and power, so being willfully blind must've meant there were people in higher positions of power who covered up for Nassar. 
I looked for others of us in the comments and here we are 
You have to separate the lines:

I almost had a

Mental breakdown but I had

To reschedule it
That is a pretty fun fact
Thank you, it irked me that it was formatted like one but the syllables were all wrong. 
What really?
A business needs customers 
This isnt even close to being a haiku
That's nice, dear.
No it's not.
Well it does lately. Lately I've been seeing titles like "True". I'm like, I know it's hard to enforce rules about bad titles, but being that lazy should at least get you a shame flair.
This is always the case but, like, man... /u/the_second_cumming has a *way* better title than OP. Good shit.
You can take the day off, it's unfortunate though that you need to make up some bullshit though. Do the ol raspy voice and few coughs and tell em you're sick. It's unfortunate you cant just call and say, "I'm going to murder someone if I come in." I think the catalyst for that thought process was when my buddy called me one morning and said, "Hey man, my mom just died, can you please cover my shift?" One of the strongest, biggest assholes I know honestly thought that he needed to call me to get his shift covered when his mom died unexpectedly. Consideration for mental health is fucked up.
Depression hours hitting at noon today. 
I gotchu
You don’t remember the scandal involving the gymnastics doctor molesting all those girls?
It's got the syllable count. 
Lmao. Is this the new "cool story bro"?
Yeah, I feel like I haven't seen the "Bad Title" flair in a while
It's real depression hours
Oh yeah! I have awful memory
It's actually the old one.
We know, you told us already.
