Imagine having this incredible waterfall at the end of your street

[Google Maps link to where this is (Switzerland)](https://www.google.com/maps/@46.7433491,8.1166218,3a,75y,185.13h,97t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sqldfxXcnv00yldMEBhW3BA!2e0!7i13312!8i6656?shorturl=1)




[From the original post](https://www.reddit.com/r/europe/comments/7ycfnu/switzerland/)
If you go up the road, you’ll arrive at a massive 4-way stop. For a few seconds I wondered what the hell I was lookin at. It’s actually a runway intersecting with a public road.
I've driven that street in Switzerland. Incredible area.
Where is that?
I bet there’s a duck up there watching you.
Now imagine all the people just standing in the middle of the road taking photos while you are trying to get home.
I've been told not to chase that dream.
Its the kind of place where I wake up when the sun hits my eastern facing window. I wake up brew some coffee and cook up some sausage, potatos and cut up some fruit. After all is made I take my coffee, plate of food and rolled up news paper and sit on my cottages porch eating drinking and reading. All while saying hello to all the woman in their sun dresses riding by on their old timey bicycles and having small talk with all old geezers walking into town. All day just sipping wine and building my boat in the back shop.
It looks nice, but it's about ten thousand steps before you get to High Hrothgar. 
*Now imagine running at top speed trying to avoid a future avalanche*

Isn't life just _great_
Reminds me of many of the Epic views in Issaquah Washington
Tina Turner lives in that barn.
Imagine having all of that at the end of your street. Wow!
Thanks for reminding me how much I hate where I live 😂
You'd probably just get used to it, to the point that it wouldn't even make you bat an eye anymore.
I don't want to imagine it anymore, I just want it to be.
If someone animated the waterfall and the clouds that would be incredible
Imagine yourself getting used to this and thinking "Meh, no big deal," because that is what will happen.  We're better off in a funny way only getting to see this kind of thing once in a while.
I love visiting Interlaken, it’s just so damn beautiful
Expected it was Switzerland. It is. Switzerland never disappoints me in its picturesque views
Pretty sure this is Lauterbrunnen and NOT Interlaken. They're close by one another but not the same town.
Thought I was in r/ImaginaryLandscapes for a second
I swear I've seen this in Skyrim
Crazy to see this on reddit! This picture is taken right beside the Meiringen Military Air Base, where I made my service at. The pilots say that it is one of the most challenging air fields to land! Also, the sound when an F/A 18 or a F-5 Tiger takes off is crazy because there are high mountains on both sides! 
I imagine living in Switzerland all of the time.

Sadly I’m still stuck in Southern California - the most overrated place in the known world.
I’m going to there in a couple weeks. Actually staying in Lucerne, but I am adding this to the itinerary. Thanks, OP. 
Is this Lauterbrunnen?
but do they have good internet though
This is near where they hold the [Axalp air show.](http://www.interlaken.ch/en/activities-excursions-adventure-festivals/meetings-events-festivals-interlaken/axalp-air-force-firing-event.html) The airfield near here is where all the planes take off. It is a super beautiful area and yes the town does have a small casino because Switzerland, why not
This is one version of what heaven could look like. Holy shit. If there is life after death and it's not just permanent oblivion/reincarnation etc, I hope something like this is what's to come.
You get used to it.
It's all great until someone hits the ball up there and you have to *get it*...
*Starts singing Edelweiss...*
How does one get the county to build a waterfall at the end of their road?
I actually can’t imagine what living in the middle of nowhere would be like as a city kid. :(
Can I move in with you?
Is this what minecraft would look like in real life?
I bet you'd be pretty far from most of the other cool things you enjoy.
looks like a condom
That’s swieest!!! 
I would wake up every day happy to see that 
no
I feel like this could be Canada. Any places in Canada with anything similar? 
Yeah but that's not real. Goes to comments.... Holy shit it's real!? 
I loved visiting here (driving through) but it's just so gorgeous. Every bit of it.
Gotta get up there and disperse my wife's ashes.
Ahh the wonders of telephoto lenses. This place is a disappointment IRL
Bet there are lots of Volvo’s there 
It would be awesome. But fuck me imagine sitting on a skateboard yelling weeeeeeee 
 No, you. 
Good God, that's so damn pretty. 
Is that the Matterhorn in the distance?
Reminds me of that one area in Dragon age inquisition 
I've been here, it's very beautiful. Also called Valley of 72 Waterfalls and was a place RR. Tolkien visited a lot, and is said to be what inspired his Rivendell.
Is it bad that I’d say the waterfall is optional if I can keep the pothole-free road?
was just going to say, this looks very swiss
At first look I thought that was Jackson, Wyoming.  If I ever win the lotto I'm buying a second home there.
That is basically the end of every single street in Iceland. 
So that's where Jebediah feeds the chickens, and Jacob plows.
Probably be like "there's the fucking waterfall again, when are we getting wifi?"
People who live here probably envy visitors who come here for the first time
Property value good? Do landslides effect the cost?
The Alps are amazing. Germany, Austria, Switzerland.......it doesn't matter. It's all beautiful. I had like 500 pictures on my phone when I was driving through, and they were all great. It was hard to pick out the best ones to show my family. 
Imagine having this waterfall at the end of the street, and having to drive 30 minutes to get to the nearest grocery store
would be awesome, as long as no floods
I wanna live there.
Where is it?
Looks like it would be a bomb Pokémon town. 
I wanna live there.
Where is it?
Ok, I'm imagining the waterfall, what do I do now?
As beautiful as it is now, I'm sure I would find a reason to hate it down the line. 
At the end of my street is a crazy cat lady that hoards trash and had weeds growing out of her car. 
My wife is Swiss, she confirms this is Switzerland. 
SHOSANNAAAAAAAAA
Going to Switzerland this fall...will go here and report back.
That’s my house down there in the left. It actually gets boring after a while
If that was at the end of my street I would never see cyberspace again. 
I guess I will be bored of it in a week.
That'd be a bit weird if that was at the end of my road since there's a dual carriageway there. Might disrupt traffic
Holy shit, magnificent
You don’t?
That’s nice.  I just have a Panera at the end of mine.
Are we sure this isn't a Bob Ross painting? There's mountains, happy little trees, a waterfall and even a happy little cabin. 
I want to live there!
This looks like the pretty face after the makeup tutorial,u don't see the face underneath.
I WOULD RIDE MY KAYAK OFF THE MOUNTAIN WATERFALL
It would be great the first few weeks then boredom for the rest of my life
Everyone on the street would take it for granted after a while
Imagining it is depressing since I k ow it’ll never be a reality.
I also imagine the amount of people who would have the audacity to litter here. 
Knowing this is a bit off the main routes, is the nearby region still accessible via train? This could make for a great additional day through Switzerland.
Imagine having this incredible street at the end of your waterfall...
“So girl do you want to go see...uh.. the waterfall or....the waterfall?”
Holy crap I’ve actually been there before!

That’s Lauterbrunnen. They actually have some really nice hotels in that valley. One of the most beautiful sights I’ve ever seen
doubt they even have wifi there
Is that waterfall there Year round? Is there always enough snow melt throughout the year to keep that waterfall flowing year round?
It would take me so long to get home because I would stop in wonder every day
Probably noisy.. And my house would have a high insurance for water damage... Neighbours look poor.... No bike lane for my non existant children....
Done. Now what?
I don't even want to think of how much it would cost to buy that place.
This is amazing. Also, being able to hike up to it whenever you want would be awesome as well.
So that is the Eiger?
Looks like the mountain is about to rip away and float off.
Went skydiving in Interlaken a few years back...one of the mind blowing experiences of my life.
Isn’t this in Hope County?
Imagine having this shitty ass street at the end of your waterfall
We should turn this peaceful village into a gambling resort!
You can’t make me do anything I don’t want to
Beautiful, but if a landslide ever happens rip
Why no McDonald’s?
This was my favorite drive in Switzerland and that whole region is breathtaking. 
Needs some barricades of peace.
I have a ditch. 
This is why we go to swiss every year.
Looks like Angel Falls from Dragon Quest IX. I love it.
Imagine having that as the ONLY THING at the end of your street.
If you keep going straight you get wet.
You’d probably have to pee often
This picture smells fresh
R/godofwar
You’d probably still check reddit too much 
hehe invaded eventually, given to those less fortunate like all other places then everyone moves away, finds new heavenly spots, then gets forced out again.  yay for globalism
**I SHOULD BUY A BARN**
Yes
What in the actual......


Man they are fortunate to be living there.
Damnnn. My goal is to see Switzerland at least once in my life. Every picture I've ever seen of Switzerland is absolutely beautiful.
Wow that looks like a sweet place to capture the milky way
You know what's at the end of my street? Meth...
Anyone know how fast the internet is there? 
Imagine having this incredible waterfall at the beginning of your street
You'd get bored of it after a few years.
This picture kinda reminds me of Pandora from Avatar. So frickin pretty
Eh, looks better then it is. Its no fun constantly feeling like you have to pee
I can tell you from personal experience (I live in a town with loads of good views, mountain, beach, island and yes indeed a waterfall coming down from said mountain) that sure most of the time you might not always appreciate it super much but you never get tired of the view.

I just love walking outside looking around me and thinking "holy fuck nature this place is amazing"
ok... now what?
Imagine having a house to live in 
This is about 40mins drive from me, I should probably go visit!
I would never get anything done around the house on a pretty day. I would just stare and get yelled or for not helping out around the house. 
The only thing I could see that would improve this beautiful scene is a mosque, right atop the waterfall, Bismillah.
Visiting a river is nice, but sometimes it visits you
Waterfalls can be quite loud and they dont care if it's night time and people want to sleep, so: No, thanks.
It's really a shame that photographers abuse the shit out of HDR and long exposure to make beautiful things look more beautiful than they really are.
If Eragon's village was a real place, this would be it
I envy you
and then what?
An excellent site to set up a meditation centre!! 
The Shire music just started playing in my head. 
I will never understand this website. Literally all it does all day is fetishize the luxuries of the upper class, and at the same time demonizes the lifestyle necessary to enjoy them. 


Waterfall at the end of line.
Imagine driving towards that waterfall and a gushing rush of flood waters comes out the top. 
Imagine living in a shed like that. 
Holy molly, I think I have walked down that road before. One of the most amazing placeless I have ever been. The views and hill walking was incredible.
And then those darn Peggies came and ruined everything
Mine isn't as beautiful. At the end of my street I have a Walmart... :(
Amazing. Is there a 1920x1080 version of this?
I have a faucet at the end of my hallway.
That looks so calming 
This looks really familiar! I went hiking on this road when I was in Switzerland in 2004. This is near Interlaken and Gimmelwald. 
Wow! It's cool!!!
Wait wait lemme guess somewhere in Sweden or Finland 
Reminds me of telluride Colorado. Only the waterfall is way further off and higher and your looking down Main Street. 
Wtf....My uncle must have went out the front door amd took this shot...
My buddies family has had a mobile home above lake mead for 30+ years. Now it's surrounded by mansions but you're not allowed to build any higher. When it rains (a lot) a big waterfall appears above like this. Well, it's smaller but closer and the water is muddy, but so cool.  It rained like that a few times while I was up there. 
Saturated af.


I can smell that crisp water from here
Imagine having that stupid street at the end of your waterfall
Imagine having this street at the end of your waterfall!
I do have something similar. It's at the end of my hallway there's a bathroom. Does that count?
I did. A lot of imaginary people drowned because I live in NYC.
Actual gameplay of skyrim VR
TBH, this could be western/southern norway aswell going by looks alone
Breath of the Wild?
This looks like a screen shot from Far Cry 5
Even without the waterfall, that's a gorgeous view.
No
How close is the Starbucks? 
Redirect the water so it floods the village
Are you fucking kidding me???!!!!!
I lived in Hawaii once. Walking to the shop meant walking in the shadow of a mountain with a waterfall. Pretty amazing. Still spent most of my time indoors though. 
Wow.  I love Switzerland.
Ok, now what
I’d probably actually go outside for once.
This is absolutely beautiful!
If you follow the road on google maps, there is a nissan car dealer located there. This boggles my mind.
/r/earthporn
Beautiful scenery.
Reminds me of Iceland
Why imagine if I can just stare at this photo?
Is that a prison watch tower off on the left?
It would be like having a permanent white nosie machine
So noisy. 
Is there a high quality version of this?
I think r/earthporn would love this. 
I guess you’d become totally desensitised to beautiful nature. 
Ok I'm imagining it.. Now what? 
I stabed a women in a bar in Switzerland. I am never going back to Switzerland. Switzerland. Switzerlanddd. Or is that Berlin?
From my experience you stop smiling every time you see it after 4 months. And you stop caring it's even there after 2 years. I'm never worrying about having a home with an amazing view ever again.  
My life need some shader updates
Thought OP was Ethan Klein for a second. Had to do a double take
Flood, rock/landslide and you be dead.
 Pleasantly stoned on legal marijuana, gotta say ...that's a nice photo.
Okay. Okay. I really had to ask, but why is it that as of late, the title of most things on r/all have been like this? Very instagram-y or something that you would follow with emoji in the end? Please somebody tell me if I am being crazy.
Fake
Majestic as fuck.
switzerland - a prosperous country that continues to thrive on stolen wealth. 
Imagine living in the middle of nowhere
99% sure it's a seasonal waterfall and will be a trickle by August.
What isn't in Switzerland that's better than America? (scenery wise, America is superior to all everywhere else)
No
If you keep going straight on that road you drive across a runway.
I'm a piece of shit because the first thing I think of when I look at places like this is "I wonder how slow the internet is there."
Huh, so it turns out the grass isn't a neon yellow-green color.
Inevitably, shopped to the extent of questionable reality.

Pretty, but a bit *too* pretty. It's possible to overuse a good thing; the issue is getting carried away. 

People are used to seeing CGI and Photoshop these days. So to impress people, you're better off trying to make a scene look real than you are trying to make it look idyllic.
Man what a time to be alive. Where I can open up a link on Reddit and actually walk this street and look around and shit. 
[hijacking top comment to show off my bike in front of the waterfall](https://imgur.com/a/OSZpRKP)
Is that the Matterhorn in the background?
No shit, I came here to comment that I was geoguessing Switzerland
Its always Switzerland
Dunno why I'm surprised that reality is way less shiny. <_<
Look at this fucking house on top of it. https://www.google.com/maps/@46.7312909,8.1218909,3a,90y,328.55h,89.21t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sT5sUzdNkxTBNvtLvO52K-A!2e0!7i13312!8i6656
Imagine being able to afford to live here 
Damn and I was just in Interlaken the other week. Wish I knew about this place when I was there. 
I keep seeing pictures like this from there.  Every one I see pushes me a bit closer to moving there...
Oh wow, an airfield with loads of annoying planes, makes this pic a little less appealing.
Do they have big traffic arms that come down, like they do for trains? Or do you just have to check for planes be for crossing the intersection?
Me too! I was there last summer. After I booked my trip I found out that my mom's family is from an hour north of there (I always thought that they were from Germany.) There are lots of cheap hostels around (especially in the summer) but a coffee comes out to about $14 CAD... Also, watch out for photo radar.

Interlaken has to be the most beautiful place I've ever visited.
Is there a sign that says dead end? Or is it implied? 
Interlaken, Switzerland
I think if you zoom rreeeaaalllly far in, you see a red flag.... I would guess Sveetzer-land. 
RockBottom
Meiringen, Switzerland
https://goo.gl/maps/jGTwY2wND9x
It is the Oltischibach, in Unterbach, Switzerland. Sadly its not as peaceful as it looks, there is a military airport right there - you can see the tower on the left of the image...
Rock Bottom, on a sunny day.
Rivertown, and behind that mountain is Bleak falls barrow
Fresno
Minecraft
Home
I’m guessing Switzerland.
Hope county, Montana 
How much is property here? 
Wayward pines
Just east of Bikini Bottom.
way to freak out everyone with anatidaephobia :(
Hiding from its speeding ticket
shit!

https://youtu.be/yhyAm31cr2E
If theres a duck up there, its padaling its little butt off to stay up there
What's this referencing?
It really would be best if you could stick to the rivers and the lakes that you're used to.
Well this is delightful.
Dont you have to invade a country to get all that?
For an ol’ stick in the mud, you’ve got a pretty delightful vision there. 
Don't forget the frost troll.
Hopefully those draugr neighbors don't come knocking in the middle of the night :-/
Love how even with this beautiful picture, you’re on that level......me too.
Yea, if you drive around the North Cascades there is a lot of places like this, though with way less people.

My cousins live in South Tyrol in Italy and it looks a lot like this picture too. Alpine valleys are awesome (until they flood or volcanoes explode...).
> Tina Turner

TIL that Tina Turner is almost 80. Holy shit.
Hahaha what?
You mean the mountains, houses, waterfall, Tina Turner, and a duck? 
Imagine having any one of those things at the end of your street. Holy crap!
Fokin Miami
Can confirm. Grew up in a similar area not far from this place. Was in my mid-twenties, studying abroad, when I realized that this is something special and that most places don't have mountains like that.
Gah!  You beat me to it.
You gotta start attending the meetings first.
Use the phrase "basic human right" a lot. 
Because the waterfall is not as close as it seems in the photo? 
Tremmbelbach falls most likely 
What region is this?
did you mean to type  r/godofwar ?, I'm a bot beep boop and this action was performed automatically
The saddest thing about kids today is that they compare more favorably to what is not real in movies to that which real in nature.
What is so surprising about that? We drive cars here too lol
Nah, control tower of a military airstrip. Most likely decomissioned.
And constant need to pee
Then you don't understand what's supposed to be submitted to /r/earthporn.
I've been through those parts, and everywhere you look is jaw-dropping scenery.  I wondered how it felt for people who lived there though.  Like they have that view in front of them every morning and were like "ugh, another Monday..."
Now compare it with your life.
Y- yeah?


Isn't that the majority of waterfalls?? Lol. The summer takes a toll on all aquifers 
Selection of fast food chains. It's utter shite
Congrats on fulfilling your stereotype of the ignorant, arrogant murican redneck.
I live in CH (check the username) and I have to say east side a California beats it.
Time you got a passport boy. 
No
If you land on that runway you actually cross a road. 
Whoah. I suppose it’s like a train crossing?
As someone who lives near mountains, my first thought was that people easily take pictures from their houses that makes it look like they are closer to a mountain than they really are.  
Yup. The control tower is just visible on the left
[Heres a photo of my car on that runway about a month ago](https://i.imgur.com/W8ElrfP.jpg)
Thought that was just a barn from the pic. Street view makes me think it's also a house with a barn attached. 
I just run into a tree.
Worth it. 
So basically you live near an airfield. RIP tranquil environment.
If you go behind the waterfall, you can scream all you want, and the creatures won't be able to hear you. 
Internet service across Switzerland is generally pretty good. This is in Meiringen, Berner Oberland where I can usually get 4G or at least 3G mobile internet on my phone, even up on the mountains. 

You can also get 150 Mbit/s [cable internet](https://www.kabelfernsehen.ch/internet-konfigurator/) 
I think about the drive to work, and the drive to get take out. most of these places are in the middle of nowhere 
Slow internet in rural areas is mostly an American thing. At least in Norway (I live in a very rural area of northern Norway), we have had gigabit speed internet since 2013.
Everyone has different priorities, nothing wrong with that :)
According to this 

https://www.swisscom.ch/de/privatkunden/popup/glasfaser-checker.html

They can get up to 100 Mbit/s in Meiringen, where this is. 

The Swiss internet infrastructure is pretty good, cities all have gigabit internet, and one provider is starting to offer 10 gigiabit / s internet for Fr. 50 per month (a bit more than $50). 
probably faster than 95% of the US considering this is in Switzerland
Honestly you learn not to rely on it every 30 seconds.
Probably faster than my Comcast 
It's not up to the high standard available in many areas of Switzerland (synchronous 1Gbit/s for about 66USD (64CHF) per month - the same price gets you there only 100/20 Mbit/s.
It's Switzerland. The internet is decent. The price is sky high though.
Switzerland is a small country, it has fast internet everywhere. The same is true for most of Europe. Internet in rural America/Australia is actually slower and way more expensive than many African / South American countries.

American Telecom promises huge bandwidth (100m/b or faster) but as many Americans know that is usually just dishonest marketing. In most of the world you really get what you pay for.
My first thought was, this would never be at the end of my street because it'd be polluted and or destroyed 
The first thing I thought was "gee, that's a pretty looking drag strip".

Yep, I'm the guy who's going to screw up the neighborhood for everyone else.
Well, the lighting is different in the Google maps picture, and it's also taken with a much shittier camera.
The grass is made up of ground up tennis balls.
Yeah, but I bet the Google picture doesn't do it justice. It's probably somewhere in between the two
It's Spring in Switzerland. The Google maps picture looks like it was taken in Summer.
So if I gather what you're saying correctly, you're saying the picture is real but has been shopped to look too pretty, in which case I agree. I went to the street view and travelled along it to the end of the road or rather where the right splits going right and left, and the waterfall was definitely farther away even at the end of the road let alone where this picture is taken from.
I mean, I've been to this area of Switzerland and this doesn't look overly exaggerated to my recollection.

[Unedited crappy old android photo in Lauterbrunnen](https://i.imgur.com/9Er0qKm.jpg)
That is pretty x2. Can't say I've seen a Beemer sportbike before...
Nope, Matterhorn is around 100 km (~60mi) farther south.
Yeah, doesn't REALLY have that climb every mountain, follow every rainbow type of feel anymore now that I know I'd have to deal with planes buzzing me all the time. 
Actually, the planes are required to stop for the cars. 
What is photo radar?
It's not even near Interlaken, dude :P
Literally my thought process was “if it’s that picturesque and well kept it’s probably switzerland.” comments did not disappoint 
Looks way nicer than my hometown, Interlachen, Florida.
Literally not even close to Interlaken.
There's an amazing festival here every summer. Toured through it before. The sights are insane.
Thought it was lauterbrunnen. Lmao! 😅
It’s always Switzerland 
A little outside Interlaken. 
That place is so beautiful. I was there a couple years ago. I didn't recognize this exact spot but thought it had to be Switzerland.
[I've been there!](https://i.imgur.com/LcxNGo6.jpg)  
  
[View of snowcaps from my hotel balcony](https://i.imgur.com/Ozd7hr6.jpg)
Man I loved Interlaken. I hiked that mountain at the end of the street. 
I was just there this fall such an incredible place!
Is the the materhorn?
It's not Interlaken, It's near Brienwiler. A small village called Unterbach actually.
Some of my family lives here 😎👍👍👍
hmm, i was there long ago but don't remember that one.

lovely country though, one of the best i visited.
FunFact:  Interlaken means "wiener stuck" in German
*the red flag is a repost
flea bottom, kings landing
As a Dutch guy from the city who comes here every year, Berner Oberland is as close to heaven and complete peace as a person can get! 
I only know that word from the Far Side. 
Cool it man, I've got hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia!
Strongest enemy in Skyrim

Literally the only time I used potions in battle
What the fuck she maybe looks 60...
You should submit this to Netflix. They'll do the rest. 
Yup exactly...!
And a runway, and some ol stick in the mud eyeballing you.
Good point, well made. I’d take any of those things, not fussy which. 

Except the duck. 
Meiringen is the town name, but the whole drive from Luzern to Brienz is incredible, this is a town you’ll find if you backtrack after visiting Brienz. If you follow the road you’ll find some incredible views as you go up the pass. If I could shore my hundreds of photos I would haha.
I forgot about the man made objects rule. My apologies. 
Now I'm sad :'(
The Sierra Nevada mountains are absolutely stunning. Lots of dead trees right now but it will recover. 
If you land on the road you cross a runway
There's [a very tiny runway](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Spanaway,+WA/@47.0678961,-122.3711903,318m/data=!3m1!1e3!4m5!3m4!1s0x54910038c644c3b9:0xd45efe1c35b0fb3!8m2!3d47.103988!4d-122.4345661) near my house which goes across a main road. There's no stop signs on the road, just a plane crossing sign. I've never seen a plane landing because it's so rarely used and there are trees that line the road up to the runway, so you only get a split second to see one. One day I was following a small truck and just as he was about cross the runway a plane came in to land. Its wheels were at the height of the road signs, which would have hit the top of the truck had it been there. Suffice it to say, I think the plane came in a little low, but from now on I'm looking for planes when I drive down that road.
If you follow that road you'll encounter a henway.
I think it’s like cross training. 
Yep, they close the barriers from the control tower when a plane is starting or landing. By the way,  this is the Meiringen Military Air Base, and there are F/A18's and F-5 Tigers stationed. 
There's a signal light and a barrier, which looks exactly like those at Swiss rail crossings \(except for the missing Saint Andrew's Cross\). I guess it's controlled by the ATC tower.
Forced perspective is a hell of a technique.
I think that means you violate the "on that road" condition.
Had 80Mbit/s on top of the Schilthorn – Piz Gloria when I visited. Was faster than my internet at home and I was just under 3000m on a mountain.
This place seems to be about an hour drive from Bern in Switzerland with many other smaller towns in between so the drive wouldn't be too bad.
If the internet is fast I could technically work there 24/7
"Middle of nowhere" doesn't exist in Switzerland. There are towns all over the place. The people who live near this place certainly have a shorter commute than the average American living in the suburbs of a big city.
There's not really much actual middle of nowhere in Switzerland if you compare it to something like Canada. For example, you have to put in quite some effort to find places where you have zero cell phone coverage. Or rare wildlife like bears, wolves and lynx are fairly easy to track and count. They keep getting spotted, since there's basically nowhere for them to go that's properly devoid of humans and their infrastructure.

If you're not on some mountain, civilisation is most likely only a short walk/hike away. Pretty much all those picturesque places you see from Switzerland are easily accessible \(albeit time consuming due to the damn mountains being in the way\).
I got 100Mbps speeds in the middle of nowhere Norway where there was no sign of human beings but only animals, snow and the northern lights. It is insane how you guys were able to get network infrastructure throughout such a rugged country. 
i know this isn't possible because American ISP's tell me so when i call to complain about the exorbitant cost of 4 mb speed





























FUCK!
[You too?](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/75QdvbtZ4W0/maxresdefault.jpg)
True. There's a whole team following Roger Federer, scavenging every little bit of tennis ball they can.
Actually, there are arms, but they at activated by the traffic tower.

This means that sometimes they forget and the planes (F/A 18), are required to give priority to the cars.  At least on the taxiways.


(Yes, I've been working there)
Required is a bit strong of a word. Recommend, definitely. But if I’m crossing paths with a plane, I’ll probably give him the right-of-way. 

Unless I’m on a motorcycle, because then I’m gonna Top Gun that shit, and ride on the runway 
They use radar to find out how fast you're going then take a picture of you licence plate to mail you a ticket. Their speeding laws are really strict compared to Canada. 
Speed cameras. They’re really strict in Switzerland. And so are the police so don’t go over the limit anywhere. Luckily the limits are way more reasonable than most other countries 
There are certain areas of Switzeland in which it is illegal to take photographs. This is usually for one of two purposes. First, in order to secure their neutrality, Switzerland has some of the most advanced military defensive technology in the world strewn about the countryside. They obviously don’t want potential invaders to know where they have placed certain items and don’t want other nations to know exactly what kind of tech they have. Now I don’t mean that the equipment is visible in the open, but trained analysts could figure out what is present based on exhaust pipes coming from the ground, heat signatures coming from a “barn”, etc. Secondly, they drove their tourism business by making some of their beautiful natural wonders viewable only in person. If one could simply look at photos on the internet to see the wild Antarorachs roaming the alpine meadows, they would have no reason to visit and spend money. So, to keep people from taking pictures in prohibited areas, they have special radar which detects when photos are taken and will identify the device and devise owner. Special police will quickly contact any violators and confiscate your device. There’s a minimum of a 500 Swiss Franc fine for violation and additional fines if you distributed the photo prior to your phone being take. 
Oh, shit, well someone said it was in Interlaken and I drove pretty much all of the roads around there. Sights like this are pretty common :p
It’s 22km from interlaken so not terribly far.  
It's the other end of the lake, so not too far off. 
Well, Switzerland unabashedly developed every beautiful place in the country a couple hundred years ago so they have to. Their thought process must have been something like “ah...a beautiful valley. Yes, yes, we shall put a town here!” 
And if it isn't Switzerland it's Austria 
You aren't the only one.
The new [Lost in Space](https://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/04/13/arts/television/whats-on-tv-friday-lost-in-space-and-chefs-table.html) is what I thought of at first, honestly.
I've been there, not exactly there, but in Grindelwald and surrounding valleys.

My first thought was "If this is not there I'll eat my hat"
Switzerland or Austria, these are some awesome Alpen views
> Florida

Say no more, fam.
Omg when I saw the inerlaken Switzerland I literally thought of interlachen Florida where my grandma lives. Yea there is no place in interlachen Florida that looks like this picture... lol 
Holy shit, someone else escaped! 
Hey, are you that Florida man? I've heard about you!
greenfield?
His uncle's wife's brother's wife's grand parent's lives there.
Random Why do old people love the sunglasses emoji?
Nice try
Fun fact: It doesn't.
There were red flags. We should have known.
This the break our investigation needed!

Boys! BOYS! Look for red flags. I repeat, LOOK for RED FLAGS!
The repost was the bus driver
I mean, because that's the only place that word is from...
That was one of my favorites.
Gesundheit.
If you land on Free Parking you get all the money in the middle.
If you float down that waterfall you probably die.
If you cross on that runway you land a road
I'm not your buddy, pal.
What if you're chicken?
IS IT GLUTEN-FREE ?
seminary
You mean like Christianity learning?
Plus, mountains are really, really, big.
I don't read too good.
Wish I had schilty internet.
Me too, Mike
xD you just made my day 
Wait, everywhere doesn’t have those? What does Canada do to catch people speeding?
Big Brother loves the speed radar 
Yes, and then as a foreigner you just cross the country being flashed and the tickets never get out of Switzerland.

Source: Ahem...


Hahaha, i was waiting for 1998 when the Undertaker..  
wow. you actually got me there.
Source?
100% bullshit
Get out of my swamp
Well, he was already done.
There is no place like this in Flatass-Florida
? Sometimes I really don't get people comments, is it sarcastic ?
(I'm not English btw)
What is old for you ? Over 12 years?
Why do we park on a driveway but drive on a parkway?
[You're not going to like this.](https://www.urbo.com/content/monopoly-rules-that-arent-actually-rules/?rtg=wordp-cqOM0U&param4=urbo-fni-fbss-2111-us-de-pengage&param5=10154542609561186&param6=23842706691970319)
I like this one 
If you land in the free parking area, you will not collect $200.00.
If you land on the road you go Directly To Jail. 
I'm not your pal, guy.
I’m the cat’s pajamas. 
What if you're an egg
And orgasmic. 
Me too, Mihailo
Some provinces have it. Ontario doesn't. We have occasional speed traps, and the cops use radar guns, but they have to pull you over and give you a ticket.
Depends on the province. In alberta I believe they have photo radar but it has to be manned by a peace officer. In some provinces only red light cameras are legal and cops are used to catch speeders.
Over the pond, I think they mostly try to catch em in a car chase, force them to stop, walk up to them with a cool hat and sunglasses and have a chat. They value social interaction more then we do.
Humans in cruisers. Same in the US
> What does Canada do to catch people speeding?

There's a brand new program being tested in Western Canada called the Moving Object Outside Speed Evaluation where special vests have been deployed on wild moose which tend to roam alongside remote highways. The vest is equipped with an omnidirectional radar gun "pod" triggered by approaching microchips embedded in all Canadian license plates. If a car is found to be speeding, [the moose will intercept the vehicle](https://globalnews.ca/news/3917839/dashcam-video-captures-alberta-driver-hitting-600-pound-moose-at-highway-speed/) and an e-ticket will automatically be sent to the driver's registered e-mail address.
Used to have them in British Columbia but after a few years they stopped using them due to the negative public opinion of them.
The vast majority of the U.S. and Canada doesn't have speed cameras bro. Too expensive to have them everywhere.
Get out of my bayou.
[I'll be in my swamp.](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/J-nXbHprGBw/maxresdefault.jpg)
Tbh bruh but we got good shit too. Everglades make a good ass swamp with lots of animals and is peaceful af for chillin with a airboat and the beaches are sex. No mountains and stuff but idk what these jits hating on Florida for 
Yes.  And facetious.
Hi Dad!
Okay Jaden
I’m not your guy, buddy. 
Get off my lawn!
What if when you go outside a Gator bites your leg?
Me too, Etosh
That seems like a lot of effort 😅
In the US red light cameras are out of fashion because they are not enforced by the district attorney. They couldn't enforce the citation in court so they were basically all null and void so they were dismantled. We also don't have radar photo tickets. You have to be caught by Law enforcement and given a ticket. At least in California and Nevada. They can cite you on toll roads and bridges with a camera for not paying the fare though.   Edit for spelling 
Eh I think it’s more so they can catch people with drugs, weapons or active warrants. Kind of the police’s way of filtering through the population
Why is it too expensive? I’m in Australia and they’re a regular/everyday occurrence here. 
Is a cop or a camera more expensive? I'm going to wager a cop is more expensive. A machine doesn't sleep, it doesn't need vacation, it doesn't need benefits, it just does it's thing all day long while producing revenue and freeing resources for other areas.
>everglades make a good ass swamp

Yes, yes they do, what with all those oversized chokenoodles running around and whatnot.
You have obviously never been to Interlachen! 
Florida beaches are sex. Only been on the gulf coast though
I'm not your buddy, pal.
Look Mr Anarchy I don't have to follow the rules!! I'll be on your lawn if I damn well please.
That's not a bad thing.... Id so much rather have that than get tickets lol
Your country has the population of the Greater Los Angeles area :) 
And thank God those aren't allowed in most courts in the us due to violating your right to face your accuser in court.
It doesn't make a lot of sense financially to put them EVERYWHERE in the U.S. If you are an american you should have a pretty good grasp on how many rural roads there are here. 
Chokenoodles! Rofl
I'm not your pal, friend.
starts sprinkler. 
You could also just not drive over the speed limit.
and America is roughly 117 times bigger than Austria which means far more roads and isolated rural areas where it just wouldn't make sense financially. There are reasons why Montana has such relaxed speeding laws. There are not enough cops to enforce such a small population spread out over a state larger than Austria. 
My friends call me Murphy, you can call me Robocop.
I'm not your friend, human
I’m not your friend, guy.
On some highways/times of the day in the US, driving the speed limit can end up being *more* dangerous as the traffic flows around you going at least 10mph over. It can be really dumb, but it's definitely a thing. 

Source: Surviving I-24 everyday. 
lol 😂
But I’m in Australia and we’re about the same size as the US, although with a much smaller population. In the metro areas you have the speed cameras and red light cameras that are fixed and permanent. Then there are other speed cameras which can be stand alone or attached to parked cars which operate in the same way as the fixed ones, and they’re found all over the shop. 

There are police in cars and on bikes that can pull you over too, but they’re less common because it’s much more expensive to have someone actively chasing people speeding. Fixed cameras bring in heaps of money for the government without much work really, it seems more cost effective. 
I'm not your human, lizard.
Aw. 💦💦
Boo.
Im your huckleberry.
I'm not your guy, buddy. 
