In Deadpool (2016) while they're on their way to warn Vanessa about Francis, Weasel has a stack on $1 bills in coat pocket which he brought because he knew he'd be going to a strip club.

Welcome r/all! 

 Please have a read of our rules before commenting. Particularly rule 2: 

 > All comments must be civil. Comments about rule breaking submissions will be removed, just hit report instead. 

 Thanks!
i can respect he didn't prematurely shoot his wad, so to speak.
I feel like always having a stack of $1 bills is a good idea when you're friends with deadpool. 
I like this version of Weasel than the abused Weasel from the comics.  He's actually an equal to Wade.
Interesting add, they went to #5 Orange, a strip club in Vancouver, Canada where you mostly toss coins at strippers. 
Hmmmmmmm
Really lowering the bar on "movie details" here.
Proud of you reddit. No bomb threat jokes yet 
Yet another deadpool ad.
You could say, he really BLUE himself. 
He's more into bomb threats. 
To finally pay for the taxi?
Same for Blind Al. I like that it was more of a flatmate relationship and skipped the whole hostage thing.
I guess that is because they tried to make Deadpool more heroic here, which makes sense from a business perspective.
There are several different versions in the comics. One of the ones I really liked fought Deadpool. He would occasionally sell him things, but he'd also try to get him captured, killed, or just sent so far away he wouldn't be able to bother Weasel anymore.
Never once saw anyone toss coins at the girls at the Orange. Totally sounds like an Albertan thing to do though.
That sounds painful.
Keep those coins in your groins!
but we all came here looking for one
Or...people in a movie sub are hyped on an upcoming movie?
Then get the fuck off the internet for a few days, things'll be new. This is what happens when you breathe information all day every day.
It’s a sub about movies...?
Nope. It's a Tide ad.
Yet another to00 presence.
Are you telling me not everyone accepts HI fives as payment? 
What was the deal with weasel and blind al in the comics? Was Deadpool more of a dick to everyone? 
[Repeated Comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/MovieDetails/comments/8dw11l/in_deadpool_2016_while_theyre_on_their_way_to/dxqm98f)
Oh is it just bills there? Yeah in Alberta every strip club you throw change at them then they pick it up after with a magnet. 
You're not supposed to throw them, you just plop them in their g-strings.
Yeah girls try to make a game of it with a beer pitcher, or rolling up a poster to make a target. People still miss though and girls get straight up nailed in the face. Nasty af. 
Ever heard of "Making it rain"?

This is what's called "Making it hail".
People in a subreddit about movie details talking about a detail in a movie? Blasphemy! Burn the OP!
Only crisp high fives
I drive for Uber and would not be okay with that. The double high-five (High-ten), however, would be acceptable. 
For you? 10!
Pretty much. Blind Al escaped once to go to an old lover, only to find that Deadpool got to him and tortured him first, just so Al wouldn't be tempted to leave again.
Your coins are magnetic?
Not that strip clubs are the epitome of class but that sounds pretty trashy. 
Are you KenM
"I'm a baller on a budget, bitch."
Couldn’t get an Uber without a credit card anyway. 
Yeah we have 1 dollar coins called loonies and 2 dollar coins called toonies. They are huge and magnetic. 
Yeah nothing worse than getting a roll of coins to toss at a human one by one. 
Nah, it's even worse than that, some girls have posters of themselves that they roll up into a funnel, stick it in their cooter and sit on stage, and if you hoop a loonie in it you get the poster. 

And yeah, one edge of the poster will be moist. 
