The pastor was a very touchy man

Former pastor and youth pastor from my teen years was recently under investigation for molestation under the guise of "religious ceremony."

He claimed that his hands "accidentally slipped into her pants."

I was like "WTF kind of pants was she wearing?? Clown pants???"
Holy shit this is dark lmao
Got me right in the feels...
God forgive me for laughing at this heretic joke. 
>Who I followed: Holy bible  
>  
>What I expected: Salvation  
>  
>What I got: Mustard
As a former altar boy who was molested this is fucking hitting home
I used to go to cub scouts and the cub leader would have us change from our street clothes to the cub uniform, together. All of us young boys undressing in the same room. Turns out he was fucking recording us changing our clothes. Later on he was convicted of making child pornography. 
Eesh. Gonna be some angry Catholics in here soon
Lol your first mistake was following a pastor, he cant save you, only Jesus can.
Yeah but a light molesting or two or three is worth knowing you get to go to heaven...where the same pastor that molested you will be waiting 
Ha ha child rape.
/r/comedycemetery
More like dankcatholicmemes 
Hahaha this is fucking class 
Lucky 
r/comedycemetery
Hahahahahahahahahh Christians are molesters hahahahahahah
The hands stayed in there for a few seconds
Sure, sure, I know... it just happened. Coulda happened to anybody. It was an accident, right? You tripped, slipped on the floor and accidentally stuck your d__ in my wife. "Whoops! I'm so sorry, Mrs. H. I guess this just isn't my week."


When you can use a quote from your movie namesake!  Can I get an Amen!
Most importantly, what kind of  "religious ceremony" requires you to have your hands on someone's pants??
Please no swears on my Christian subreddit 
But not untrue
Got me right in the bollocks...
Holy shit, dude. I'm sorry to hear that.
Plz no this is literally the only religious sub on reddit where atheists and christians don't constantly viciously attack each other.
The meme is that’s its only Catholics do this but anyone who pays attention to what’s going knows that it’s common with Protestants as well. I’m not Catholic either I just want to make sure we’re calling everybody out who does that stuff.
Nahhhhh Pope Dank Frank gonna ghostbust all these perpetrators up outta this mess. #notruescotsman #thisismybody
Very true. I have a friend who legit just does not believe in going to church and has never done so, but he prays and talks to God on his own.
Don't worry! The ability to use your authority to get away with sexual assault extends to *all* religions, hallelujah! 🙏
Omg me too!!
Back that
He actually did while he took time to "~~prey~~ pray over her."
And not just the Amen, but the Awomen and the Achildren, too!
Annointing with oil. And, no, it *doesn't* require putting your hands in someone's pants.

The girl, unfamiliar with religion and the process of annointing, was told that multiple parts of her body needed to be "annointed." Yes, he annointed EVERYWHERE.

How it ended up from "annointing" to the defense that "my hand accidentally slipped down her pants" is baffling to me.

It was eventually deemed as "non-criminal", since it seems that clergy is exempt from authority coersion laws that protects victims in my state, but I believe that after this, there is push to get these laws changed.

However, the pastor resigned and I believe is moving him and his family out of state after all of this, aside from more sketchy accusations from former members of the church's youth group.
If only people knew how true it was.
He may be able to assist you in that area...
I feel like the entire point of this sub is for atheists and Christians to low key attack each other by seeing who can post the dankest memes.
I'd say its even better than simply not attacking each other. Anytime I have seen someone try to attack the other side they are generally downvoted heavily. This is honestly one of the most civil places on reddit where religion is meme'd (and occasionally discussed). 
*Non-criminal*

I'm speechless and repulsed. 
That's awful
People DO know, they just choose god over child safety. 
Still an improvement, especially when you see actual intelligent and civil religious discussion.
All conflicts should be decided by memes and their dankness. 
Welcome to "more reasons why I don't trust people"!
Pee is stored in the balls because god willed it, prove me wrong. 
It's like the whole "wars replaced by sporting events" sci-fi trope. What other concepts could exist?

**All wars replaced by...**

1. Slam poetry
2. Rap battles
3. Fourth grade spelling bees
4. Mario party
5. Paper airplane contests
6. Flag football but with the flags taped to some big 'ol tiddies
7. Hide and go seek
8. Yu-gi-oh duels
9. Super mario odyssey's balloon world
10. Literal dick measuring contests
11. Tricycle races
12. Putting bugs in jars and having them fight
preach
Why would spaghetti care? 
Mario Party would cause an escalation of violence
