Seashell-shaped sink (xpost r/hmmm)

Oh my this is gorgeous.
I could pee in one side while my girlfriend brushes her teeth 
Try to say THAT ten times fast
[original post ](https://www.reddit.com/r/hmmm/comments/8djnwb/hmmm/?st=JG9HN7RT&sh=ff7c0b15) 

[purchase link ](https://www.expressions-ltd.com/products/concrete-countertop-sink-mold-nautilus) 
PRAISE LORD HELIX
Looks stylish and not too difficult or impractical to clean. It has my vote.
This was common on 4chan in the "post your dream sink" threads back in like 2008. 

Good times. 
The Beyblade battles that could go on in that sink
That would be nice to clean
those are cool..unless you have hard-ass water that leaves hard water deposits along the way.
mods asleep?
i feel like if you tried to wash your hands, water would spew everywhere because the sink doesn’t dip down enough where the faucet is
Problem is I wouldn't want to put my hands under it and ruin the water flow.
This would annoy me so much, but I love it!!!!
Tim Burton’s got a cool ass sink!
Susie sells seashell shaped sinks by the seashore.
Susie sells seashell shaped sinks by the seashore.
Susie sells seashell shaped sinks by the seashore.
Susie sells seashell shaped sinks by the seashore.
Susie sells seashell shaped sinks by the seashore.
Say it: She sells sea-shell shaped sinks.
For those people who say “I don’t spend enough time cleaning my sink!”
That's probably a bitch to clean after a few days. 
Have fun cleaning this. But I'm guessing if you are buying this, you have cleaners. 
For some reason sinks that allow me to see how much water I am wasting make me very uncomfortable. My friend had a sink where the faucet was directly above the drain and the water would just go straight into it and it bothered the fuck out of me. 
In lithuanian word for sink is literally seashell (kriauklė)
Mods must be asleep....
Praise helix
Looks annoying to clean
This is exactly the kind of thing I joined this sub for
Praise the Helix Fossil 
I feel like that would never properly rinse.
r/ATBGE
And incredibly inconvenient to clean.
Hmmm 
Porqué no los dos?
you mean you cant with normal sinks? 
THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT THAT
I tried. I literally went "she- fuck." I don't think I'll try again.
Sally sells sea shell-shaped sinks down by the sea shell-shaped sea shore
ridiculously expensive for a rubber mold.
The restaurant is was in last night had these!
I have to agree, this is pretty ugly. 
How? It doesn’t seem like that much more effort than a normal sink...
Worth it
Honestly seems fun to clean, would probably make me want to clean it more than a normal sink, sucks that you can't use it for brushing or any washing activity that is similar
That's ok, I don't clean my sink...its pretty gross
Maybe 60 seconds tops.  Sooo inconvenient.
I was just thinking how terrible it would ve for brushing your teeth or shaving.  
It would be good for a restuarant or something
The real hmm is always in the comments
who needs a sink? this works in any room
Begone, **THAT**!
I went through the same process as this comment chain in my head.  Came to the conclusion that if I spat toothpaste that missed where the water flows, it'd be a pain in the ass.  
Is it a Hmmm or a Hmmm though?
sounds like every sink

This is more of a "impress your party guests" type sink. I wouldn't use this for spitting toothpaste. It belongs in the powder room.
Don't spit like a shotgun then.
Look at Mr. Rich guy over here with a powder room
I'll order 6 of these for my powder room. 
To be fair, this is probably one of those things that cost the price of being able to afford a powder room. 
Make your own with concrete and foam. 
