Getting a crew to Mars: Here's how NASA is tackling the mind-bending to-do list - How researchers are solving technical, psychological challenges of getting a crew to Mars and back

[The Habitat](https://www.gimletmedia.com/the-habitat) podcast goes into this, following one of the experiments NASA did to prepare for a potential Mars mission. 

> On a remote mountain in Hawaii, there's a fake planet Mars. Six volunteers are secluded in an imitation Mars habitat where they will work as imitation astronauts for one very real year. The goal: to help NASA understand what life might be like on the red planet—and plan for the day when the dress rehearsals are over, and we blast off for real. Host Lynn Levy has been chronicling this experiment from the moment the crew set foot in their habitat, communicating with them through audio diaries that detail their discoveries, their frustrations, and their evolving and devolving relationships with each other. From those diaries, Gimlet Media has crafted an addictive serialized documentary: the true story of a fake planet.
 
It’s the crews physiological well being that’s going to be the biggest hurdle.  

Edit: Read this article. Toward the end it goes into great detail. 

http://planetary-science.org/planetary-science-3/exploration-2/the-physiological-and-psychological-aspects-of-sending-humans-to-mars/

Also there are people at NASA who’s sole job is to come up with a way to predict and select the right people for the task. There was a really cool documentary on this. Can’t remember what it was called and too lazy to google further.
We aren't going to Mars anytime soon if the agenda swaps with each god damn president. Can we have a movement that puts a halt on the swapping and just lets NASA do their thing? Preferably starting with the Moon base? Cause if we can't hold a Moon base we DEFINITELY can't hold a Martian base
Right now it’s looking like the first mars astronauts will be aboard SpaceX’s BFR. The BFS is massive so psychologically getting there shouldn’t be too bad. The pressurised volume is the same as the volume of an A380, and is planned to have 40 cabins. They plan for a crew mission in 2024 and I have no reason to believe they won’t achieve it, as they’ve done every crazy thing they’ve set out to so far. 
I have a few questions for someone who knows more than I do about a Mars mission. Some have to do with the how, and the other why?  
  
1. What is the plan to deal with the radiation? Can a proper shield be created to protect these people from lethal doses on the away trip, the time on Mars, and on the return trip? And if it can be created, how much do you estimate it will weigh?  
  
2. What is the energy source for both the rocket and the life support for the trip?  
  
3. I understand that a good launch window exists in 2025. NASA seems to have given up that year for launch, which I think is realistic for them. Is it realistic for SpaceX to successfully reach Mars with their launch vehicle in that year? What is the next year with a good launch window after 2025?  
  
4. Can a human body survive this long in space/away from Earth? Is there a plan to simulate Earth gravity while en route? Is the plan to just bring along rations for the trip or to grow food in the spacecraft itself? What are they going to do with the waste?  
  
5. Why Mars? I understand the exploration motivation - I am excited by that as well. Are there moons in the solar system that are more promising targets for long term settlements? Is the main reason for selecting Mars because it is next door?
You don't have to bring me back, just please send me there as soon as possible thanks ! 
My boss is a hibernation physiologist who was just invited by NASA to a long workshop about the biology of prolonged spaceflight to Mars. They ended up concluding that biology is the most serious limiting factor here, not psychology and not engineering. He got back and spent an hour long lab meeting telling the rest of us about what they’d discussed, stuff like the pretty devasting biological effects of microgravity, the vision problems, the inability to lower metabolic rate enough to have enough O2 and fuel, the radiation and throughout the whole hour you could see all our moods slowly shift from “This is so cool” to “This is really never going to work, is it?”  They are writing up a couple papers now... look for them in about 8-12 months.

Fun fact, if they ever do it they’re probably only going to be able to send “tiny women” - smaller body mass & also massively reduces amount of food & O2 that have to be brought, & apparently the engineering & fuel needs are all about minimizing mass.
Having spent a few years on submarines, this doesn't seem too bad.  Imagine how good they'll be at cribbage and hearts after this.
Why back? A one-way trip would be much cheaper and simpler.
I think we need to think beyond the norms to get to Mars.

Regarding psychological effects, why not find a group of gamers, give them all the games they want, and let them play through the journey. That will sound like a paradise to a lot fo gamers.

For their physically activities, the chairs  or whatever that constraint them could be designed to make then go through some light but effective resistance exercises? 

Edited grammar.


Hey, I know her! The one in the photo. That's Dr. Martha Lenio from Canada, who led one of the 8-month HI-SEAS simulation missions a couple of years ago. She's awesome.
Ok, stupid question, but why are we in such a race for Mars when we don't even have quick and easy access to the moon? I mean the last time someone walked on the moon was 1972. If we can't regularly get people on the moon, why would we be trying to get people to Mars? I know the answer, yes it's because to explore another planet besides the moon is a huge victory, but still, I want to see more people going to the moon first before we trust ourselves enough to go even farther. 
Tl;dr why mars is so much harder to get to than the moon? Is it primarily due to having to keep people alive on the trip? Could we send a ship there, land it, and have the ship return without people?
They should train solitary confined prisoners who have life sentences. If they'll make it back they'll be released and free. They you have a movie.
They are coming back? I thought the plan was to go there and stay there.
I think it's great that we're working on these problems as it is our future but until I hear of a viable solution for the radiation issues (both during travel and on Mars) I don't consider any of it to be imminent.  That is the one issue that I haven't heard anyone come close to solving yet but it seems to be the least talked about.   In this article of many paragraphs it is mentioned once in passing.  We just don't know how to make practical radiation shields for ships and suits yet though going underground while on Mars may be an option.
Are we going there to try and achieve colonisation eventually? I'm concerned this will just be a PR one time stunt thing even if we did land successfully
If I were participating in the experiment, I would take the game 'Take on Mars' for extra credit and immersion. 
###&#009;
######&#009;
####&#009;

Acronyms, initialisms, abbreviations, contractions, and other phrases which expand to something larger, that I've seen in this thread:

|Fewer Letters|More Letters|
|-------|---------|---|
|[BEAM](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqktj3 "Last usage")|[Bigelow Expandable Activity Module](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bigelow_Expandable_Activity_Module)|
|[BFR](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqktj3 "Last usage")|Big Falcon Rocket (2018 rebiggened edition)|
| |Yes, the F stands for something else; no, you're not the first to notice|
|[BFS](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqktj3 "Last usage")|Big Falcon Spaceship (see BFR)|
|[CNSA](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqjty8 "Last usage")|Chinese National Space Administration|
|[ESA](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqjty8 "Last usage")|European Space Agency|
|[GeV](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqld3n "Last usage")|Giga-Electron-Volts, measure of energy for particles|
|[JAXA](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqjty8 "Last usage")|Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency|
|[JPL](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqld4g "Last usage")|Jet Propulsion Lab, California|
|[LEO](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqmzqq "Last usage")|Low Earth Orbit (180-2000km)|
| |Law Enforcement Officer (most often mentioned during transport operations)|
|[SLS](/r/Space/comments/8dvfq2//dxqjq88 "Last usage")|Space Launch System heavy-lift|
| |Selective Laser Sintering, see DMLS|

----------------
^(10 acronyms in this thread; )[^the ^most ^compressed ^thread ^commented ^on ^today](/r/Space/comments/8dh1xv)^( has 22 acronyms.)  
^([Thread #2600 for this sub, first seen 21st Apr 2018, 14:24]) 
[^\[FAQ\]](http://decronym.xyz/) [^\[Full ^list\]](http://decronym.xyz/acronyms/Space) [^\[Contact\]](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=OrangeredStilton&subject=Hey,+your+acronym+bot+sucks) [^\[Source ^code\]](https://gistdotgithubdotcom/Two9A/1d976f9b7441694162c8)
Better work on perfecting getting to the moon and back first! Oh wait that's right nothing on the moon to see.
It would be easier if NASA asks the crew members these ships that know them and very well to know the technicians

https://youtu.be/U4gIHVdtOec


How humanity grow beyond the limits it is  appreciable!!
 
Shouldn't they just see how SpaceX does it and learn from there?
Unpopular opinion here, I'm sure, but I don't think there's a great chance of this happening, i.e. there and back again, in our lifetimes. We may take a shot at it, but it won't end well. Lunar exploration worked with essentially analog components. There are *way* too many digital systems and subsystems critical to survival, interconnected and relying on existing technologies, such that (given failure rates of electronics in general) it is highly unlikely that it will be successful. This is a real gamble, with human lives on the line, for all involved. I'd like to be wrong, but I don't believe I am.
Wouldn't it make sense to have a robotic return mission first? Then with knowledge learned from that, send a manned mission.
Getting human to mars is easy, getting an austronault back to earth alive, on another hand,l
Maybe the new head of NASA will pray about and find an answer :( we know he does not believe in science.
It's mind blowing to me that I am reading an article about NASA's to-do list for getting people to another planet - and it's not fiction. How amazing that it's very realistic that we will live to see this happen.
They're doing it by putting a guy who doesn't believe the earth is round in charge of NASA.  Nice choice.
I'm 75 and just learned of a great way to satisfy the astronaut's libido ... anal plugs.
Article should have just said "they are calling Elon" the end.
One challenge would be the difference in day - night cycles. Humans evolved under a 24 hour one, Mars is something like a 36 hour cycle. How're we going to compensate? Do we have them establish designated sleeping schedules that correlate with time back on earth? Or do we let them figure it out themselve?
I’m halfway though and I haven’t heard a single biodome reference. 

Also I have to skip when they play chewing noises. Not the best podcast for someone with misophonia. 
Just began listening to this last night!
Well, given that, I do have high respects for [fiction writers](https://scrolldownandread.blogspot.com/2016/12/write-for-your-readers-not-for-yourself.html).
Yes I'm so excited to start listening to this! 
Is there a video documentary? And where can I find it ? Please and thank you 
Is Pauly Shore in this movie too? 
Indeed. I did my thesis in human factors engineering for deep space habitats and the major hurdles design-wise are radiation protection and combating the detrimental effects of microgravity. The psychological effects are still a huge problem of course, notably having enough habitable volume to live comfortable, which is difficult when spacecraft volume is constrained to the fairing of modern launch vehicles. This can lead to cramped conditions and limited acoustic and visual privacy between facilities. These are the issues that inflatable modules like the bigelow B330 hope to solve.
Are we talking about physiological or psychological well being?

I mean both would be difficult, but with physiological factors (depending on how long they stay there for) wouldn't things like bone density, blood pressure etc be affected to a higher degree? Sounds like it could be more difficult.

Edit: Thanks for the article. Wow these effects sound pretty shitty.
>Whoever goes will also need protection from **radiation**, ways to deal with illness, the capability to independently repair whatever breaks down en route — and, of course, a place to live once they touch down.

That. The psychological and zero gravity toll can be daunting. But cosmic radiation is a very serious issue if the capsule and living quarters aren't protected from this on a very long term flight or colonization. They will could all die. I believe this is obvious to NASA, Space X and others, but I never see any progressive news on this challenge.

Is it?

I feel like it would be pretty simple to just select for personalities that would fare well with prolonged isolation
Some people are mentally strong 
Perhaps but honestly it's equal to the radiation exposures of the trip in each direction plus that on the surface.  You can EASILY get 20%-50% increased chance of cancer.  That's a major liability exclusion people have to sign up to.
>too lazy to google 

This should be the tag line for the year 2016
right? It's just stupid how NASA has to be held with the president, if they were less restricted by president and party group and more free like SpaceX they could do so much more
But NASA's thing is exploration and discovery, and sending humans into space diverts funds from that objective. 
As it stands they can’t use NASA astronauts. Even once they have a man-rated rocket, there just aren’t shielding materials atm that are capable of mitigating the interplanetary radiation field. NASA has adopted personnel exposure limits such that no worker can have higher than 3% risk of death due to work exposure in their life on a 95% confidence interval. The radiation risk of cancer alone on a mission to mars places them at about 3x that risk. Cancer aside you have inflight complications due to microgravity and radiation-neurons appear to shrink and cause cognitive decline, the heart undergoes major functional changes, the immune system takes a huge blow, neuro-occular syndrome presents major eye health concerns, etc. 
This said, private companies can train and hire their own astronauts, or NASA can lower their limitations. Any astronaut will go despite the risk.
They will do it. But, like all Elon Musk goals, it will happen a few years after the target date.
Someone was implying that someone not Elon Musk was doing something interesting in space and/or the automotive industry!?

Elon defense force, roll out!
Hard to predict what the launch platform will be. The BFR hasn't been built yet, and Musk's mouth runs far more smoothly than his production schedules.

Assuming anything about SpaceX's role seems a reach at this point. The work may be spread around among several government contractors, including SpaceX, or not.
You mean they have never met a deadline?
What does this got to do with SpaceX? Isnt it about NASA? 
They rarely ever meet deadlines. Don't get your hopes up.
So you are telling me that SpaceX is gonna build and test the BFR with multiple test flights before ironing out any mistakes, construct a launch pad that is able to launch the BFR either in Texas or Florida, train the astronauts, construct habitats for the astronauts and make sure they work. All that in 6 years? If they managed to do that I will eat my shoe
You have no reason to not believe that they'll reach their very short deadline of 2024, apart from the fact that SpaceX and Elons other companies regularly miss deadlines on huge things like this, quote badly too :p

Will be awesome though but I think they'll be pushed back to 2026. The 2024 human flight deadline also assumes they'll suscessfully pull off non crewed missions to Mars in 2022 which is just 3.5 years away. Delays to 2024 for non crewed and 2026 for crewed will still be amazing though and will be very quick, I think delays to 2026 and 2028 is likely too.
A couple things I find interesting:

Elon Musk is investing in tunneling projects.  Maybe he is just trying to ease traffic flow in LA.  Maybe he's toying with making subterranean martian colonies.  That's the radiation problem solved.

Tesla bought Solar City.  This could be the plan for energy on Mars.

Mars is closest, but not ideal.  The President of SpaceX recently called it a "fixer-upper" planet and wants to eventually settle in other solar systems.

These are weird times we live in.  Makes me wish I could live another thousand years just to see what will come of it.
>Are there moons in the solar system that are more promising targets for long term settlements? Is the main reason for selecting Mars because it is next door?

There are some really exciting moons, but you pretty much hit the nail on the head. They're so far away that they make Mars look easy to get to. I think windows for going to Mars (like for resupply) are also much more regular.

We also don't know as much about the moons of Jupiter and Saturn. We've landed oodles of probes and rovers on the surface of Mars, but nothing on any moons (other than  our moon). Mars already has some infrastructure like relay satellites set up, and we've mapped the surface pretty well (imagery about as good as Google Maps had of Earth 10 years ago). That'll certainly make things like selecting a landing site easier

+ What is the plan to deal with the radiation? Can a proper shield be created to protect these people from lethal doses on the away trip, the time on Mars, and on the return trip? And if it can be created, how much do you estimate it will weigh?

A safe room with shielding.

+ What is the energy source for both the rocket and the life support for the trip?

Solar

+ I understand that a good launch window exists in 2025. NASA seems to have given up that year for launch, which I think is realistic for them. Is it realistic for SpaceX to successfully reach Mars with their launch vehicle in that year? What is the next year with a good launch window after 2025?

Approximately every 2 years (2.4?)

+ Can a human body survive this long in space/away from Earth? Is there a plan to simulate Earth gravity while en route? Is the plan to just bring along rations for the trip or to grow food in the spacecraft itself? What are they going to do with the waste?

Astronauts have spend longer in space than it takes to get to Mars. 

+ Why Mars? I understand the exploration motivation - I am excited by that as well. Are there moons in the solar system that are more promising targets for long term settlements? Is the main reason for selecting Mars because it is next door?

Because it's there, and yes it is the second closest. We could not survive long on the Venus surface, perhaps the clouds.
So this is the problem with thinking we're going to do anything more than orbiting Mars or a short Apollo-style landing there during the 2030s. We can probably do those two mission profiles with near-future technology and operational knowledge. 

Even the ISS, our testbed for long-duration human spaceflight is tethered to the Earth for supplies. Now if we could sever that linkage--through a combination of self-sustaining ecosystem providing biological needs and additive manufacturing to replace spacecraft and habitat components--then deep-space exploration and permanent outposts or settlements become possible, technically. If we really get serious, then perhaps by the 2050s. But assuredly no sooner; the technology and mission planning just isn't there yet. 
There are two submariner astronauts at the moment, I think. One whose an ascan in training. For long term missions, it's definitely more advantageous to take them over the crowds of test pilots who aren't trained for long term engineering maintenance and isolation. 
While true, having astronauts die on Mars wouldn't really be that good for PR.  You can't live there for decades without some form of constant resupply, which in itself would probably be a lot more expensive than a return trip.
Reusing the rocket would actually make it much cheaper. According to SpaceX
So you are sending astronauts to Mars to die? We dont even have the technology for permanent habitation on another planet and you want to do a one-way trip?
Good astronauts have strong survival instincts. Wanting to die on an alien planet is a pretty strong disqualification to being taken seriously.
I don't know where they get the idea to come back from. Look, you ever hear JFKs speech to Congress about going to the moon? He says (emphasis mine)

>[First, I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon *and returning him safely to the earth*.](https://youtu.be/GmN1wO_24Ao) 

Now, I've heard Trump talk about *going* to Mars. Never about coming back though.
We're still following VonBraun's vision. 

Humans to space > moon > space station > Mars. 

Poorly managed money has fucked a lot of the schedules put into place. Constellation was supposed to be the project for when the shuttle ended, but they spent out their money and Obama shut it down, and then redesigned the same program with assets we had. The moon was always the first step, he just focused more on talking about the end goal. 
Muscle atrophy (and related effects) are a bigger problem. After a ten month journey the astronauts wouldn't be able to stand up once they land on Mars.
>until I hear of a viable solution for the radiation issues (both during travel and on Mars)

The solution is this: keep total travel time under one year, in which case your risk of cancer only increases by several %. Also have a shielded area on the ship against solar flares. Once on Mars, put the habitat several meters underground. Radiation is a concern but not the biggest one. Long term effects of low gravity are the biggest unknown.
Lots of people worry it'll be a "flags and footprints" mission similar to the Moon landings. NASA only has plans to have a few people land in the far distant future but SpaceX is building their rocket primarily for near term colonisation.
Isn't Mars cycle by coincidence really close to Earth's?

Edit: Yeah it's 24h, 37m. Don't know where you got 36h from.
A Martian Sol is about 24 hours and 37 minutes.  Not a huge difference in the short and medium term, but will quickly make it difficult to synchronize days vs calendars on longer timescales.

Kim Stanley Robinson does a reasonably good job in his *Mars* Trilogy, where the colonists decide on a 37-minute "timeslip" between 24:00 and 00:01, to continue the normalcy of an Earth day, and base their calendar on the planet's orbital angle.
> misophonia.

Sounds like a phobia of missing a telephone call.  Miss-oh-fon-ia. But I'm with you on hating to hear chewing noises, especially when wearing headphones. 

Another is when a person has that wet mouth sound when they talk.  It bugs the shit of me.
I've not looked too much into it, but you can see videos if you look up HI-SEAS on Youtube. NASA have run quite a few of these 'missions'. 
Sounds very interesting! Have you published anything on this research since your thesis?
http://planetary-science.org/planetary-science-3/exploration-2/the-physiological-and-psychological-aspects-of-sending-humans-to-mars/
It is an issue, but it's an exaggerated issue.  Lining the ship with an inch or so of water is enough to eliminate the vast majority of cosmic radiation.
My favourite comic on cosmic radiation:


http://www.commitstrip.com/en/2016/06/02/thank-god-for-commenters/
Any men going should bank their sperm before going. Also an all male crew would be a bit more resilient to radiation.
Mixed with resilience against stress. The stress of being in a little capsule floating across millions of miles of death, with little death particles flying around at I’m gonna fucking kill you speeds. And probably a degree in something sciency. Seems like a relatively strait forward hire. 
He wrote physiological, not psychological. Big difference!
Agreed. But all you need is one of those people to crack under the great stress.
If I was recruiting for a mars mission I would make sure to put people up there that didn’t just appear strong but were happy to heir baggage (well, not en mass in public of course) because having people who recognise their flaws are better than having people who appear to have none. Let’s say I even magically found one who really didn’t have any, I would not put them at the top of the list becuase I would want people to have recognised established stress coping mechanisms to fall back on. If one has never had real stress before and something does take a turn for the worst in a mars mission then the mental crackdown would be far greater than some one who understands how to cope.
He said physiological not psychological
Their budget is pathetic compared to the benefits to mankind they’ve already produced. They shouldn’t have to choose one over the other. 
They can just buy out the NASA astronauts into private contracts. 



Man I'm gonna need to post this comic all over this thread.

http://www.commitstrip.com/en/2016/06/02/thank-god-for-commenters/
The BFS is 85,000 kg, it dwarfs the mass of the equipment Curiosity was surrounded by on the way to Mars. That means the radiation levels will be substantially lower.

Charged particles radiate material, creating secondary radiation. Some atoms become radioactive, create even more radiation. Lighter elements tend to have more stable nuclei, so there's less secondary radiation. This is why steel and aluminum tend to be not very effective radiation shielding, while water and plastics tend to make more effective radiation shielding, on a per kg basis. BEAM has a comparable radiation environment to a much larger aluminum module, because of the lack of secondary radiation. A giant vehicle made of plastic and carbon fiber will be even more effective at blocking radiation.
I already live in a confined area and don't care about dying. What about rounding up like 200 of us, shooting us off in a space equivalent of a UPS box, and having us use the ones that die as radiation shielding due to our water content? Also food. 
Why is the microgravity such an issue? There have been astronauts up there over 1 year. This is a 2.5 year mission with most of that at 1/3rd gravity (I believe). So I don't mean to belittle the concern, but we have ways to mitigate some of the risk. Plus once on the surface there are more better exercise machines that can be used.
And sadly, the window for Mars missions is only open for a short amount of time (a few months every other year, I think?)
Maybe! Many of the delays with SpaceX (such as falcon heavy) have actually been due to the phenomenal growth of falcon 9, and the focus on that due to the commercial requirements. 

I think BFR might be delayed, but at most one mars transfer window (which is about every 2 years) 
Yeah, that’s a good possibility. But I have no doubt that in the next decade at most they’ll get there. 
No, no, no. This is Reddit, not to mention /r/Space. Elon Musk can’t *possibly* be less than perfect.
Have a look on Google at "Elon time". Several examples will pop up, most famous of all being Falcon Heavy which was delayed for 5 years (although that was in part due to the constant updates to Falcon 9) before it finally flew. I'm going to go with experience and say that the proposed test flights of BFS for next year will be delayed, but the optimist in me hopes that this is a deadline they meet.
Their always late but so far have always delivered. So while I utterly dismiss 2024 I'd be surprised ifntbeu haven't done it by the end of 2028.
It is about NASA. I was just saying that I think it’s interesting how the article focuses on how NASA is working out how to get to mars, when SpaceX is the one that is actually going to get us there. They basically have everything figured out for the most part. 
They are already constructing a launch pad. Also 39A is able to handle the BFR as it was designed for NOVA. It will requires some changes, but not a full rebuild.

The BFR is the habitat for the first missions.

I'm buying the Musk->tunnel theory. Makes far more sense than high speed rail or whatever the cover story is. However, I don't think it "solves" the radiation problem - but it buys lots of time to get there and figure out how to get humans to adapt the environment. 

And yeah, Mars is not a ideal destination. Fixer-upper is being kind. But it is close and it would provide a foundation for the engineering/adaptations that we just don't know we will need to make other exploration or colonization possible a couple thousand years from now.
We actually did landed a probe on Titan. A probe with very limited resources, but still.

>+ What is the plan to deal with the radiation? Can a proper shield be created to protect these people from lethal doses on the away trip, the time on Mars, and on the return trip? And if it can be created, how much do you estimate it will weigh?

>A safe room with shielding.

For solar particle events, sure. But the rest of the time the astronauts will be bathing in gamma rays, energetic heavy ions, and secondary neutrons. There's not (yet) shielding, biological countermeasures, or operational procedures capable of reducing dose equivalent to under the 3% REID guideline for long-duration (~>600 Earth day) missions. 

There was an episode of PBS space time where the host said one issue with inhabiting mars that we have yet to overcome is the long term effects of reduced gravity
Just because someone says something doesn't make it true. When McDonalds says they have the best hamburger, do you take them at their word?
We've sent millions of people to die for meaningless wars, I think you would easily find a few dozens people willing to take the risk.
IMO the BFR has the right solution of going faster. It solves a lot of problems. Sure you need more fuel but that's traded off against the extra supplies needed for a slower flight.
It is possible to create artificial gravity by rotation. So you would just spin the vehicle you use to get to mars at a certain, constant rate and you wouldn't have the problem of near zero gravity. As for radiation shielding, the background radiation of space seems to be widely overestimated by most. The vehicle hull provides sufficient shielding. What is actually more of a concern is the radiation from solar storms and other 'freak' events in far away space we cannot predict. It should though be possible to include a safe room with sufficient shielding that the crew can you use for a limited time. 

For more in depth explanation I can only recommend the 'Mars Direct Plan' by Robert Zubrin. In it he also makes some great analogies between space exploration and earlier exploration on earth. To paraphrase, it makes no sense to stop space exploration because there are some many unknown factors, the factors and solutions for these problems will only be discovered if we actually make the journey and experience it for ourselves.
Muscle atrophy is far from being a problem anymore. Astronauts exercise in space, and also on earth after they come back. Mars gravity being lower than earth's,  it'll be faster for them to walk and lift again (with daily exercise on Mars just like here on earth after astronauts come back). 
Absolutely right, especially considering that the usually proposed longer, but cheaper route comes with a venus fly by, which will expose the crew to a lot more radiation.
We have to terraform the planet first, which I imagine we will begin to do in my life. But I don't think the planet will have breathable air for at least 800 years
I don't know, not interested enough to look it up and get the proper number.
Another half hour of sleep? Sounds great! 
miso means hatred.  that's why miso soup sucks.
Thanks for the quick response ! I'll be sure to check it out.
Explain why all male is more resilient when women are the ones with the spare chromosome?
Yeah but the pool of volunteers would be massive. Look at NASA's early days in the Mercury and Gemini and Apollo era - those flights were incredibly dangerous and physically rigorous, but they were able to select the best pilots that the Air Force and Navy had to offer because everyone wanted to get in on those missions.
> The stress of being in a little capsule floating across millions of miles of death, with little death particles flying around at I’m gonna fucking kill you speeds.

It's just as dangerous to be stuck 100m underwater in a submarine. You'd be too busy doing your job unless your job is to sit and look out the window and think about all the things that could go wrong.
I need to read more carefully.
Was under the impression that “personality” was squarely under the latter’s umbrella, soo..... There’s that.
There's now way fhate doesn't look extremely shady, though.
https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/CNS.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/other/BMed%20Additional%20Evidence.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/Arrhythmia.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/Osteo.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/SANS.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/Acute.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/Degen.pdf

https://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/evidence/reports/Cancer.pdf
/u/Clever_Userfame  isn't arguing that SpaceX has forgotten anything at all. The point is that these issues will make it politically difficult to use NASA astronauts given current rules and medical technologies. 
Thank you for showing me this hah
You have the right idea! There are very little studies in cross sections of charged particles with carbon fiber, so it will be interesting to see what comes out of those studies. High-density polyethylene and water are pretty good for light particles, but for heavier ones, whose median energies are about 1 GeV/n, slowing those particles down paradoxically increases dosage due to a phenomenon known as the Bragg peak, by which particles deposit more energy as they reach a slow a slow down point. Now activation of metals or secondary radiation as you call it is not a real concern. However, cosmic Gamma and X-rays are in effect shielded by aluminum, I’m not sure how well carbon fiber does.
You’ll probably kill your crew members 
It’s the whole landing then recovering process which is an issue. You can find discussions online where space dudes talk about the insane difficulties involved with recovering. They are quite literally at the risk of spontaneous death in the following days. 
Every 2 years - anything is possible with scandalous amounts of fuel though
Hopefully you’re right, but the original timeline of 2024 also had BFR orbital testing sometime in 2018 and at this point, the best case scenario is having BFS orbital testing at some point in 2019, so I would imagine it’s at least a little bit delayed already. 
A company that has never sent crew to space, and has never landed anything on another celestial body “basically [has] everything figured out for the most part” and will LAND humans on mars in the next 6 years??? Not a chance in hell.
I didn't read the article. I'm just pointing out there is a lot more involved with an expedition to Mars then simply getting there  
What has SpaceX figured out about living on Mars? 
Having a rocket and having the knowledge to keep humans alive and not insane in space are very different. Who cares what rocket lights the fires, it's going to be a NASA operated mission. 

Also, SLS. 
SpaceX has done close to no research about going to Mars. The BFR is an ambitious project (perhaps too ambitious considering SpaceX capabilities), but otherwise a trip to Mars on the BFR wouljd be mostly based on the work of NASA and other agencies.

And realistically, the SLS will probably be the rocket that sends us there.
We have spent very little time in the space past the moon. There is a *lot* we don't know.
>I think it’s interesting how the article focuses on how NASA is working out how to get to mars, when SpaceX is the one that is actually going to get us there. 

I really want to yell at you for this but knowing this sub I'll get downvoted and I won't change your mind so I'll just say this.

Shut up. 
Oops, totally forgot about Cassini's little brother.
Among those being the fact that children born on Mars would probably never be able to live on Earth, because they wouldn't be used to ~2.5x the gravity that Earth has over Mars. Accomodating for this would require extensive daily exercise.
It's at about 1/3G that we get detrimental effects over the long term. We counteract the problems of microgravity through exercise and diet While the cardiovascular system does alright through that, bone density still degrades linearly. 
We know nothing about the long term effects of reduced gravity.there may not be any...
Just because scientists say the earth is round, do you assume they’re lying?
I would be one of those in a heartbeat.
So you are saying that we should train suicidal people to become astronauts before launching them into space to die?
War, funny enough, is actually pretty necessary at times.
I agree, this does seem possible.
Getting it by a beam from a pulsar would not at all be friendly.
Atrophy is not a solved problem at all. Astronauts exercise rigorously and their health still deteriorates. Exercise merely slows down the deterioration, but it does not stop it. This is manageable for a 1-2 year mission, but for an actual colony it may prove to be fatal.
I agree that terraforming isn't happening anytime soon, but you can definitely have a non self-sufficient colony before that.
Then why even comment on the subject? Like this has to be the laziest and dumbest thing I have ever seen. Give some reason you think you read one time of why the entire mission is a failure and then respond to a comment telling them you are not interested enough to look it up.

It would have literally taken you the same amount of time to type into google "how long is a day cycle on mars?"

I am seriously dumbfounded by the sheer amount of dumbass lazy you have shown here.
That's why it's a good hangover breakfast. 
Yeah his comment makes no sense as I haven't heard a single damn thing about any research in regards to resilience to radiation between the genders.

Haha who would hire someone to do that? 



....asking for a friend. Acquaintance really
NASA has been using radiation as an excuse not to make progress for 50 years. 
I mean, whats stopping the main crew capsule from being made of thick lead. I know there is a weight issue but you could send it up in pieces from multiple rocket launches. I feel as though any competent mars shuttle will need to be built in pieces in orbit.

Also, cosmic radiation are particles, usually larger atoms, which have been ejected by the sun or other stars and are traveling at relativistic speeds. These particles are (always?) charged particles. Why couldn't you add and electromagnetic field to the outside crew capsule which redirects particles around the main crew capsule? [Something like this but instead of an airfoil, have it be a bullet shaped cylinder.] (https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/99/Karman_trefftz.gif) After all, magnetic shielding is how the earth shields us all from this sort of radiation.

Just strap some solar panels to your ship and you could charge your electromagnetic shielding for the duration of the trip (the panels would degrade themselves without shielding, but I suspect they'd last long enough for the duration of the trip.) 

So thick lead shielding in a bullet shaped capsul sorround by coils which generate an electromagnetic feild. Why can't this work?
I don’t think the public would care too much if they lifted that policy a bit. Politically no one would give a single damn if they chose to make history like that. 
Shhhh shhh, ^there ^are ^no ^laws ^in ^space
Yeah but current NASA has also never sent crew beyond LEO. They have never designed a powerful rocket. The list goes on.

People sort of think NASA magically knows everything NASA ever new, but the problem is that this is just not the case. 

SpaceX will probebly not be as fast as they say, but they are miles ahead of NASA.
It would make for a great movie, successful or not. 
Agreed. As laudable as SpaceX is - they are only sucessful because of the research and infrastructure NASA built.
SLS won't land humans on Mars even according to NASA. Their plan has been to use SLS to build a station around the Moon and then use that as a departing point for a new transport ship that could go to Mars orbit. They've yet to outline plans for landing on the surface.
The BFR is being constructed now.  It’ll be flying within 2-3 years.  SLS will never be funded enough to go much of anywhere.
> And realistically, the SLS will probably be the rocket that sends us there.

If you think that is realitic then you are living in a fantasy world.
Too ambitious? Landing a rocket booster was "too ambitious". Look how many they have landed now. Space x is serious.
We know lots aboit 1g quite a bit aboit 0g and nothing at all aboit the effects of anything in between.

Before sending anyone to mars we should do atleast some animal tests in orbit with capsules spun up on tethers.
I'll take a punt with it being "somewhere between the effect of zero and one gee".
So you want to die that badly? Do you know that there is 0% percent chance of surviving? You will just be in the spaceship until you starve or dehydrate to death. 
I'd put that under the category worst case scenario'. I am in serious doubt that we could actually shield against that with traditional shielding. At least in a way that can be considered feasible. It is however unlikely, that we'd ever be exposed to that, as the closest pulsars are well out of our reach. Due to the long distance dispersion the dose reaching any solar system traveller should only be a fraction. If I remember correctly, and considering my limited knowledge of the subject, probably not too accurately, the greatest threat is radiation from solar winds. 

I'd imagine by the time we have developed a feasible solution to interstellar travel we would be able to cancel out radiation by other means. From the top of my head I'd wager there should be a way to have a field generated around the spacecraft in which the radiation, which in itself is just energy, would be counteract by an equal amount of energy. It would of course require copious amounts of energy, so I'd deem it unlikely to be feasible before having developed better forms of energy production, i.e. fusion.
Not really since they'll be on Mars so they won't be in micro gravity. It's only 38% of earth's gravity but might be enough to develop equipment that make your muscle work like under an earth's environment, thus drastically slowing down body deterioration. 

The journey to Mars will be less than a year, and we have gained quite a good understanding of the effect long stay in space. 
**2028**: SpaceX, only a few years late, lands their first BFR colony vessel on the surface of Mars to much fanfare and public adulation. Elon Musk himself, now 57, is the first to step foot outside the hatch. The company quickly establishes living quarters and sends almost daily reports back to Earth celebrating their achievement. A schedule of resupply missions every few months is arranged by SpaceX to support their new colony.

**2030**: Public interest in the program quickly wanes as messages of difficult living conditions, intense labor, and widespread depression reach the homeworld, despite the best efforts of SpaceX's public relations department. Combined with the high cost of tickets, this causes the number of people who wish to die on Mars to suddenly decline. Seats on the BFR are heavily discounted in a last-stitch move, but to no avail. The second launch is cancelled due to a lack of funding.

**2033**: SpaceX begins to fall behind in the spacefaring industry. They have the name recognition, but that name is sullied somewhat by a high-profile cancer death on the Mars surface. Additionally, their focus on interplanetary travel has allowed their competitors to disrupt the lucrative LEO sector, and clients begin to jump ship, so to speak.

**2035**: SpaceX does not have the cash on hand to launch the next resupply craft to Mars. They don't even have the cash on hand to continue as a business, and the government bails out the company just enough to pay off their debtors.

**2036**: Elon, still de-facto leader of the colony, is forced to make videos pleading for assistance from NASA and his former competitors. The colony survives on the barest of essentials, sent on the taxpayer's dime, while NASA scrambles to put together a plan to retrieve a large number of untrained inhabitants from an ill-advised landing location.

**2041**: The rescue mission for our first Mars colony is a joint effort among NASA, JAXA, ESA, CNSA, and a number of private companies that were willing to help in the incredibly underfunded project. PR for the return is a fairly low-key affair, with several smaller, more efficient ships returning from the red planet over the course of about a month with the remaining colonists, starting with those in the worst medical condition. Elon Musk, now 70, is on the second-to-last craft. He can barely walk on his own as he returns to Earth's gravity.
> It would have literally taken you the same amount of time to type into google

The same could be said for just about any question ever asked on Reddit. 
Put a poached egg on top and its heavenly. 
That’s patently false. The only missions we’ve had outside our (radioprotective) magnetosphere are the Apollo misssions. Yes, over the years the agency has grown more cautious.

The real reason we lost the push for mars was loss of public interest, which by the late 70s prompted NASA funding to reduce to a tenth. You can also thank the Nixon administration for abandoning the Mars push for the space shuttle.
Oh no, they are worried about cancer! What a bunch of fucking pussies! 
Uh.. The moon isn't in LEO. 
Pff, this old argument. First of all, all current space organisation including NASA are only working because of the past. NASA also learned a whole lot from other places.

Also, NASA has the same technolgies avaiblable to them as SpaceX. NASA has actually far more access to that information. Many other companies could have done the same as SpaceX. BUT THEY DIDN'T.

SpaceX has shown that they are willing to massivly innovate far beyond what NASA has done in many areas. They are massivly pushing the envelop in many areas far beyond what NASA is doing at the moment.




There's lots of issues with SLS, but lack of funding is definitely not one of them.
Flying for what? What mission has signed on to it?
As far as I know, best case scenario for an Earth-Mars trip is a few months. That could be enough time to vary the centrifugal force experienced by a person such that they could adjust to new gravitational conditions.

Still, going from Mars to Earth will definitely require a lot of individual preparation and lead time.
Learn by doing. Tests conducted in zero G, simulating some gravity above zero and below 1 is... going to be difficult. And possibly not predictive. 

What will end up happening is that a private corporation is going to find volunteers who are willing to go on a one-way trip, and have everything studied - especially the physiological effects of living at Mars's gravity. 

And it'll be sad, and weird, when people die on Mars and for a few years, whenever it's in the night sky we'll feel weird about it... but eventually, it'll be OK. And those pioneers will eventually  be honored as pioneers throughout human history - people who went further than anyone else, took risks, and changed the world by doing. 

The only real reason to go to Mars is to stay there, forever. Otherwise, the expense isn't worth it. The stuff we really want to know requires being there, for a very long time. 
Everyone has a 0% chance of survival. Going out on Mars sounds way better than a retirement home, or a car accident, or a heart attack...or basically any way most people die.
It has nothing to do with wanting to die. It's the exact opposite... it's the epitome of a life experience! It has to do with what do you value in life.  For me that experience, one of the first to explore a new planet, see things never seen, push human boundaries.  You give me that and even if it's a one way ride I'm going to consider that a life well lived.  So I only get a few months, or a year there it will still be more amazing in my perspective than what I'm likely to have happen here.  Also NASA isn't going to let you slowly starve to death.  If they know it's a one way ride then there will be a painless exit plan.

Problem is I don't see NASA ever sending a one way mission because of the PR aspects of people that won't understand.
We dont know whether 38% is enough to stop the deterioration or not. A year long mission is still possible, but an actual colony where people live for decades? Low gravity may prove to be fatal for this.
I will not allow this to happen. 

-Future Aerospace Engineer

-Bachelors in Computer Science - Physics Minor
-Masters in Aerospace Engineering 

We will make Mars possible. 


I never said that radiation fear was the primary reason why they stopped doing a lot of things, rather I am saying that NASA has been using that excuse for a long time.

While Apollo was the only manned mission, we have tons of robotic missions with sensors and we know the radation exposure. We also know enough to about radiation to make judment calls about it.

Honstly I think that 'public interest' story is a pretty false narrative. It relies on an overestimation about how much interest was there in the first place. Sure people watch TV, but the reality is that it is still a government sientific  program and its pretty unrealistic to expect most of the country to constantly pay attention to everything they are doing.

Also 1/10 is not true: https://i.imgur.com/bD7dr9f.png
Mostly people who are retiered or dead by now. Most people at NASA today started during the Shuttle.
NASA of the 60s is a different organization that today's NASA. They haven't even sent someone to LEO since the shuttle, and haven't sent crew beyond LEO for decades. They don't even have launch capability, which SpaceX does
To say they are innovating alone is a bit of a stretch. After all, a lot of the control theory used on the falcon rockets was initially conceived by JPL for the sky crane vertical landing system which was employed by Curiosity to soft land on Mars.

Spacex is also an engineering organization first and foremost. While they have accomplished a tremendous amount, I think it's false to say they are exceeding the research output of the entirety of NASA. 
Several other companies could have developed their own falcon 9's for the money spent on SLS
If you need multible billion per year then funding is an issue. Yes, they know get that much, if you ever want to get to Block 2 or even Block 1b. That requires that politcal alliance to continue working for another 10 years. 

At a time when there are many people inside and outside of NASA are already pushing away from that project.
It's still months but we're talking 4 not 10. ISS trips are like 6 and that's manageable.
Yea I believe a ton of people would sign up to be in the first small group of humans to actually land on another planet. I mean honestly we are all going to die and only the smallest fraction of people can ever hope to accomplish something as significant as that. We send teenage kids to war to fight people they have never seen and to die for things they very well might not even believe in. The main difference here is these would be grown adults knowing what they are getting themselves into.
Honest question: if you're seeking the epitome of human experience, then why are you posting on Reddit on a Saturday morning? Aren't their better experiences you can be having right now?
I'm sure your family wouldn't mind that their child/SO is killing himself in the name of exploration and science /s. I agree with you that NASA would never accept such a plan because it is entirely inhumane and NASA's number 1 priority in any manned mission is safety.Science and exploration come second. If SpaceX ever does something like this, my respect for that company will disappear entirely no matter how many rockets they land upright.  
Oh, I missed the part where you said "current" NASA. Sorry about that. 
I'm mostly talking about the tech SpaceX actually working on. Of course NASA is a way bigger organisation that does many things SpaceX just doesn't do.

SpaceX is now more competent then anybody else globally in terms of launch and lading. This includes things like engine, heat shield, landing software and so on.

NASA has not really designed a truly new rocket engine in a long time. NASA has not really designed a new vehilce in a long time. NASA simply has not invested in advanced technology in that space.
See, respectfully that is where you and I are different.   To me the experience of that journey would trump everything else.  I've told family and friends several times I would take that opportunity.  Perhaps it's an easier decision for me than most having no children and limited family but I also believe I'm far from unique if NASA/SpaceX/etc. went looking volunteers.  I want to kick up some Mars rocks and watch a Martian sunset :)
