Love the actor, hate the character

I love Cersei. I think she is a phenomenal antagonist. 

I don’t root for her and hope the character suffers an appropriate death at the right time. 
I love crazy Cersei! But i love Lena more, her personality, her talent... and she is a seriously GORGEOUS woman 😍😍😍 one of my biggest girl crushes
People are horrible.  She’s playing a part!!! 
Without the character of Cersei GofT wouldn't be nearly as compelling as it is. She's been the villain from day 1. And yet there's been a few moments where we've been happy for her, cheered for her and felt sorry for her. That's all a testimony to Lena. If she ends the series without an Emmy win it will be extremely disappointing. 
Love the actor, love the character
Awww, I’d let her sign my book.

Lena is reet cool btw. I follow her on social media and she comes across as such a smart, kind-hearted lady.
Thats the sign of a true artist, people will hate you in real life too, she should be proud of her acting.

I’d wait in line to meet her any day!! She’s amazing!! The fact that people hate her just shows how amazingly well she has portrayed Cersei!! 
Exhilarating actress. Very beautiful woman. Funny person. 

People who confuse actor and role are just an embarrassment. It's not some cute immersion, it's just painfully ignorant and *soooo* dumb.
I hate the character but Cersei is perhaps the best villain we've seen in ages. Like before her, who was the staple villain really? I have a Mad Queen wallpaper I found on google images of Cersei that looks fucking badass. Props to whoever made that.

https://pre00.deviantart.net/24a3/th/pre/i/2016/185/3/9/i_choose_violence_by_lord_corr-da8gv5s.jpg
I'd rather get an autograph from her than Emilia Clarke tbh. She's a much better actress and plays a much more interesting character.
Lena can sign my book any day 
She's awesome and I think the best actor on the show.
I love her character, simply the smarter character in the series.

I know the bad guy can't win at the end, but I would love if that happens, at this point nothing else have potential to surprise us.
I love her so much!! 
People are nuts! Cersei is one of the best characters.  Lena was also great as villain 'Ma-ma' in Dredd.
I hate Cersei but I love Lena. Same for every other character I don't like. But there's a lot of people who cannot separate things. And it applies to every cast member.
If GLOW taught me anything it's that the villain drives the plot far more than the hero(es). Cersei is by far my favorite character, along with the actress because of how convincing she is. 
Love Lena. Love cersei even more. 
Any link to this interview?
Lmao 3 dragons 
Lena is amazing 💙
Check her out as Ma Ma in Dredd or Gorgo in 300. She’s awesome! 
Reminds me of the Skyler/Anna Gunn hate (even though she was apparently the only sane person in the show) 
I've never understood this attitude towards her. She's a phenomenal actress and her performance is what makes that character fun to watch. 

I'd climb over a lot of people to get her autograph. It sounds like I wouldn't have to but I would! 
When people sincerely hate you, you're doing a fucking awesome acting job.
I’m really sorry, who is this?
That's how good of a job she does . Talentented  and so charismatic . 
I think everyone knows an attractive person who has a repulsive personality. 

(Not the actress. The character.) 
Don't hate the Playa, hate the game.
I have heard that she is a terror to work with, and can't even be in the same scene as Brawn, (spelling)?. 
Cercei is one of my favourite characters, she is messed up and a bitch but so the fuck am I
She'll always be Patty the Pirate from the first *Risen* game to me.  When you run into a trap and die, she calls you an idiot.  Bitch.
*actress
I love cercei I hope she kills everyone and wins she suffered enough,  ps: huge monster bodyguard should smash dragon whore 
Yep. Some of the best characters on the show are really shitty. Joff was such a well-played villain. Cersei. Ramsay. LF. 
thats the genius of her character. her motivations are consistent and her progression is so gradual that we start out hating her, start to sympathize, and by the time she's full [March of the Black Queen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SoBMhx_ap_g), we forgot she's a villain and still sympathize with her
Knowing HBO the death will be very inappropriate for children 
Same. Her character is so interesting and entertaining to watch. I can't wait for her to die in agony.
Who the fuck is my antagonist??
My name is Jamie. 

My tinder says I'm lookin for my Cersei.
Some people become so obsessed they forget what’s real and what’s not. Rather worrisome.
Testament to her acting ability that people could reject her 
I doubt this happens often. Most fans probably jizz when they see het
Agreed.
She is one of the more interesting characters.
Definitely a crazy bitch but one that is really determined and smart. 

I agree. *ducks from the Daenerys lovers*
Who's the villain in GLOW?
Bronn.


Her and Jerome Flynt (Bronn) used to date.  Apparently it didn't end well, and they aren't on good terms.
"An actress can only play a woman. I'm an actor – I can play anything" - Whoopi Goldberg
https://youtu.be/LOcrJE_jW90
Fuck Olly tho
Tywin, and to a degree, stannis also fit this motif.
If she becomes inconvenient to tie up in a nice bow, she'll just get randomly stabbed and the story will carry on like nothing significant happened. For examples, see Doran Martell, Roose Bolten, Osha, and Littlefinger. All non-book deaths. All done for shock value, cause that's what makes for good, honest TV making these days. All the contrivance of D&D.
Hey it's me ur sister...
Your sister is going to be pumped when she sees your profile pop up.
Dumb fucking shippers kill me. Remember all those Supergirl fans rioting about something said at comicon because the show wasn't going fit their lesbian masturbatory fanfiction fantasies. They were incensed that the people that created and write the show were going to do the show they way they were hired to instead of nothing but fan service.  It was kind of scary. 
I’m fully aware of and admire her acting chops. I’d still have the ability to differentiate Lena from Cersei if I ever met her lol. People who can’t do that are just...well, *weird*.
I'm not gonna say smart. Determined yes, but not smart, she can't see the big picture.
Dany lover here. I agree wholeheartedly! Lena’s amazing and her character has many more layers than Emilia’s, not to say that Daenerys’ character is flat, she has her complexities as well. I love them both but damn. When Lena was able to make me actually feel for her during the atonement I legit fell in love with her and her character and I feel so conflicted. Sign of an amazing actress.
I agree, Jonsa is totally happening!
[FUCK OLLY](#FUCKOLLY)
F
/r/freefolk is leaking

Edit: uh, apparently it is /r/freefolk
Stannis yes, Tywin... dunno. 

He wasn't evil or insane like Cersei, Joff, etc. He wasn't needlessly cruel except to Tyrion, but even there, he gave him a chance. 

He was pragmatic, understood the world he's in, and ruthless. I'm pretty open to either interpretation. 
Charles Dance was such a perfect casting choice.
To be fair, they could still die like that in the books, if we ever get get said books.
Rickon! The Tarlys. The Tyrells. Could go on.
You clever person...
She seems super nice in interviews, but I can't wait for her character to die :P at this point I don't even feel bad about that cuz she's made it all the way to the final season
Cersei is human. I appreciate a “bad” character more when they have humanising qualities like she does. It’s so interesting to watch. She’s not going to go down like a stereotype cackling or screaming, it’s going to be emotional.
LOL HOW U DO THAT, oh wait its a bot
U
You are on /r/freefolk ...
/r/lostredditors 
He was known for wiping an entire house off the face of westeros, and took part in facilitating the red wedding, where a mother's baby was cut out of her stomach while alive.

I'd say he's up there with the rest.
He master minded the red wedding, and had tyrions wife raped by a bunch of soldiers... 
Rickon was a shame. The way GRRM described him and his direwolf in the books (as far as I remember) made him seem like he'd be an interesting character after he came of age
C
Wiping out a house in rebellion? I'd say that's normal. Robert and the Targs, the Northern lords shocked that Jon didn't take the lordships away from the kids who didn't rebel... 

And while the red wedding was bad, it won him that war. I'm sure Tywin gave no specific instructions as to who was to be killed how, so I don't blame him for that. 

Not good, but pragmatic and efficient. So not nearly as evil as the others. 
Tyrion's wedding was a farce. Jaime paid a whore to pretend to fall in love with Tyrion and paid a drunk septon to pretend marry them. Tywin also paid the woman a gold or silver for each of the soldiers that had sex with her.
The red wedding was pragmatic - he took out the enemy with almost no losses to his own forces. Unethical, sure, but it's war. 

The raping of the wife thing, yep. 

But the others I mention have basically made it their life's work to be horrible to everyone. 
K
I find it disturbing how easily you are able to justify killing an entire family at dinner including an unborn baby. Like, actually disturbing. 
This is a classic "enamoured follower defending the charismatic leader" routine. You're being really wishy washy with that justification. So you think he thought that the Red Wedding would be that they would lightly slap the Starks on the wrist or something? And never mind the slaughtering innocents part but simply the fact of him treating Tyrion like absolute dogshit his whole life puts him in "not a good guy" category. Like, he was a bad person both on a small and large scale. He's a greedy, dispicable cunt who happens to be good at his job, that's all. 
I'm fairly sure it's revealed in the books that Jaime lied about her being a whore to spare Tyrion, but I can't remember where. 

And it was a silver for every soldier, a gold dragon for Tyrion because "Lannisters are worth more."
So rape is cool as long as the victim gets paid?
All of this only reinforces the idea that Tywin's a piece of shit, it doesn't invalidate it, especially since Tyrion actually loved her.
Even if she was a whore she didn't deserve to be raped! Seriously, wtf?
Again, a baby was *cut out of a living person's stomach* at the red wedding, at dinner. They literally reference how brutal and unheard of that is-- to kill an invited guest in your home.

Not a war move. A sketchy, underhanded move that only a true asshole would have ordered or facilitated. 
The main difference between Tywin and the others seems to be that he isn't a complete sadist. Cersei, Ramsey, Joffrey, etc all get/got their rocks off on hurting others. Tywin is way too much of a strategist to set himself up for failure the way they did.

*However*, at the end of the day all of his tactical brilliance is being used for one purpose--to preserve the family name. He has no love for his family, only for their reputation, and despises Tyrion and Cersei for exactly that reason, because they're tarnished it (Tyrion by virtue of existing, Cersei by incesting it up). So even though he isn't "evil" in the sense that he goes out of his way to punish people for no good reason, he's still a terrible person who values a name that will inevitably become irrelevant due to the passing of time more than the people who are actually around with him for the brief time he has on Westeros. IMO, at least.
I'm just shocked anyone bought Tywin's justification of it.

Also wiping out the Reynes and Tarbecks was an atrocity and not at all a normal thing. He drowned innocents in the mines... it was all about him feeling humiliated and to "rectify" that he committed a terrible crime
Well I gave 2 examples, but there are tons more. The ordering of killing elia and her children/infants while asleep in their beds. The whole absolute destruction of the Reyne family... There's even rumors that say he gave the order to Vargo Hoat to cut Jaime's hand off, so that we would give up being a Kings guard and rule Casterly Rock.  Just a rumor, but if true, he maimed his favorite son in order to get him to do what he wants...

I love tywin as a character, but dude is evil. And sure the red wedding benefited him greatly, but that's so low. There's a reason guest right is a thing, he totally went against everything that is right and committed a war crime. 
O
O
O 
It's war. War fucking sucks. Thousands on both sides die, and in this world, civilians get murdered, raped, robbed, starved... and once it's over, the losing family is wiped out and demonized. 

By doing this, Tywin saved his own army massive casualties and preventing mass slaughter of civilians for years as the war drags on. Had Tywin won, the outcome would have been the same - the Starks wiped out, pregnant mothers killed, kids raped... but the road there would have been more bloody. 

What can I say, I'm a pragmatist, and in this universe, this was probably the least bloody outcome. 
If you're able to end the war that's guaranteed safety for your men as well as your vassals. One dining room massacre or countless more weeks of marching and fighting?


Pretty easy choice if you ask me.
Not to get too serious on here, but hey, war is never easy. That single move probably saved hundreds of soldiers on both sides. Not to mention Rob was winning the war, which meant that if Tywin didn’t take action fast, it could be his own kids that are slaughtered. It was a smart and clean decision that was horrible to us because it killed the people we were following the whole time. 

Not to mention Tywin didn’t seem exactly overjoyed when it played out. Joff was the one jumping around with excitement. 
Even in the TV show it was heavily implied that Jaime was lying.
I'll have to double-check. It's been a long while since I've read the books. You're definitely right about the silver/gold though.
She's a whore and was paid for the act. 

It could be said she was forced due to the implication, but that's the world she lives in. Life is cheap, and Tywin Lannister is her god.
Tywin Lannister is a product of the world he lives in. He's cold, ruthless, and calculating. Look where honor, compassion, and truthfulness got Ned Stark. Game of Thrones shows the reader and viewer time and time again that being morally ambiguous is the only way to survive.

Tywin Lannsiter is no good guy, but he knew what it took to survive and prosper.
I didn't say she deserved to be raped. I just clarified what happened.

What happened to her, and Tyrion, was tragic, but that's life in Westeros. It's dirty and cheap and vile.
The baby thing almost certainly wasn't ordered by Tywin, but Walder Frey. 

As I said elsewhere, it's in poor taste but the least bloody outcome of that war, while the end result is similar - the Starks wiped out, including pregnant mothers. 
L
L
except it wasn't Rob's M.O to murder children. He literally killed his own bannermen for that. 

Again, justifying killing children because "war sucks" makes you sound  *terrible.*


She wasn't a whore, though. That was a lie.
L
Y?
It's a work of fiction.  He's justifying the killing of fake children during a fake war based on the "realities" of the fake world that all this fake stuff takes place in.  
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y?
Y
