Drive home. Photoshop (digital). 8.5"x8.5"

Just Dobby looking for his sock
Style reminds me of stålenhag :)
I love this style and the creepy factor of it. I do think that it would be a little creepier if the creature was more opaque, or more concealed by like a dog or something
Whenever I see something tall and lanky like this I always think of the wendigo from until dawn.
Cool! Needs a bit more fog/blur over the creature imho. 
Wow! The superposition of the desolate modern & the creepy does wonders together. Reminds me of [Jakub Rozalski's](https://www.artstation.com/jakubrozalski) style.
This is really cool! I love your style!
Looks like concept art for season 3 of Stranger Things 
I like how the truck is braking like “yeah I don’t really need to go home right now let’s just see where we can turn this thing around”
About the time the .30-06 came out from behind the seat...
Better than most pictures on r/creepy
I absolutely LOVE the atmosphere of this. Is this OC? If it is then great job I think you perfectly captured the atmosphere you wanted.

EDIT: Is the shadow in the background a little to the right of the creature another larger creature or is that just a building?

EDIT 2: Do you know where I can find more art like this? I'd appreciate a link if you can. 
Really love Fords...f150 and a Taurus!
I think we made a wrong turn, Hank! The map says we're in Silent Hill.
Amazing painting of a calm, normal evening drive. 
Can confirm. Daily drive in the midwest. 
I don't often think of alien creatures in a snow covered environment. No longer. Maybe that's a better place to hide here on Earth then the desert! Lol
\*WHERE SOCK HARRY POTTYPANTS?
Lmao guys chill it’s just друг looking for a new friend
Is this actually a demogorgon
друг*
Is that the guy who does all the future snow robots intermingled with volvos?
With a pinch of Jakub Rozalski
That’s just what I was going to say. I love that guy’s work
That guy's amazing! I'm now a huge fan. 
Opaque would make it less concealed. 
I think you meant if the opacity was lowered. Which if so, I agree with you. 
That would be one big dog 
I worked on that too :)
That was my first thought. 

Although it's possible that's a Volvo.. Can we have some clarification OP!?
> друг

Third time I've seen this is the pass hour. Please fill me in, I'm out of the loop. 


Yeah, sounds about right :D my old job had his art on the walls and I never got tired of staring at them. Always blown away by the lighting and "feel"
You're right lol I got my words mixed up. I think that it needs to be a little less apparent that it's there 
Hahaha I meant fog, autocorrect
Idk if you're fucking with me or not but if you did all I can say is great game. Y'all should really make another like it.
My guess is this: http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/apyr
friend in Russian, i believe
