After 12 years of fixing my life from nothing to something. This is my reward. This is Thomas Benjamin

Wow! Much hair! Rename him Beethoven? JK, don’t do that.
He's got Main Character hair. Congrats!
How long do you think he has before he makes it to flavor town? 
That hair is amazing!  My youngest had black hair with white tips when he was born. Although it all fell out after a couple of weeks.
I’ve never seen so much hair on a newborn. Practically needs a haircut already (I wouldn’t).
Look at all that hair!!! Congratulations :) 
How many people have asked you about heartburn?
The cutest Christopher walken impersonator i've ever seen😀
Omg! The hair! Congratulations! He is beautiful! 
Best. Hair. Ever. Seriously though congratulations he's adorable! And well done for getting your life sorted out!
Anyone else see a Rod Stuart resemblance?
Holy shit! Its tweak from south park!
Doing a heckin hedgehog.
Congratulations :) ! He is super cute . Thank you for sharing , it gives me hope to fix my own life .
Diapers and drive ins and dives. Welcome this child to flavortown
I think you just birthed Guy Fiere. 
You know you really shouldn't put a hedgehog on a kids head. Even if it makes for a great picture.
Kudos to you for taking care of yourself and building your life AND felicitations to you and your partner on your dear little boy.  Cherish and savour the whole wonderfully  beautiful and scary parent experience. My children taught us the best life lessons. Enjoy. 
Mac’s mom from asif 
Congratulations!
What a cutie!
That hair is awesome! Congrats!  
r/13or30 except 1 or 60
Congrats!  Epic hair
Oh my gosh that hair makes him look like a tiny mad scientist!
Wow!
Is the baby’s mother, or are you, Christopher Walken?! 
So how was the 12 year journey from nothing to something?
Rod Stewart much?
Congrats Guy Fieri!
That's Rod Stewart, pal.
Wow. That is truly awesome hair. Congratulations. You’ve done well. 
Flavour town.
I hear Sum 41 needs a new lead singer 
I got an Emmett “Doc” Brown vibe. Very cute. Much congrats.
He looks like my childhood idol, Boris Becker. 
Congratulations! Just so you know all that hair will probably fall out and grow back in again. He's beautiful I've got an 8 month old myself lol
Get him some sunglasses and his mom a shirt saying welcome to flavor town
How does a baby come out with highlights?!
Rick Sanchez?
Congrats!! :) *Cute* kid and I don't want to bum you out but Bon Jovi called and would like his hair back. 
Haha look at this little guy. Cute. 
I'm very happy for you.  That is great, and a well lived life is a reward, as well.

That said I'm still waiting to see the baby born with a full beard.
No, that is [Christopher Walken.](http://livesstar.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/green-goblin-willem-dafoe_7.jpg)
Awesome head of hair!
Where’s the r/roastmybaby sub?
That is an exceptionally cute baby.
Congratlations!!! He’s adorable, and look at all the hair!!! God bless
What a sweetheart, congratulations! 
Your child is like an anume character.... that's pretty awesome, congrats!
I think you may have birthed a super saiyan!

Congratulations :)
Future genius baby right here 
Looks kinda like Napoleon Dynamite’s grandma. 

I mean that in the nicest way possible.
Oh my goodness look at all the hair! He’s adorable. Best wishes <3
Looks like Steve Kerr. 
Oh my goodness the hair!! There’s so much and it’s so full and has so many colors!! He’s a doll, I want to sniff his head😂 (I’ll just sniff my own baby’s head, no worries). Congratulations!! Being a parent is absolutely wonderful!
You are incorrect. This is Rod Stewart.


He’s adorable. And also he’s making all the 90’s-guys jealous with those frosted tips. 
Name him BoRic
That hair! He is GORGEOUS congratulations 
That hair is lit! Almost looks like frosted tips in the light. 
*brrruuup* Morty! I turned myself into a baby Morty!
Cute baby pal 😁
And it only keeps getting better, congrats on the beautiful baby boy.
Look at all that hair! He's adorable, congrats OP 
Baby Christopher Lloyd
Congratulations, I hope he grows up to be a strong man just like you've become. I know you'll give him a great life :)
That is hands-down the best hair I’ve ever seen on a baby. 
Such a cute baby! Congrats to you and your wife 
Oh Jesus that hair! Did you have terrible heartburn?
Super awesome name!  Especially in the *aden era! 
He’s adorable and his hair reminds me of Gordon Ramsey! What a cutie - congrats!
H
Jobu!
Please update in 21 years when he's a successful hair model. Or scientist.
boy *kratos voice*
Aww. Look at all that hair.  Congratulations OP.
His hair is amazing
Congratulations. You have TB.
My daughter didn't have that much hair till her 1st birthday
Look at that hair!!! He has more hair than my 1.5 year old haha
Uncanny name choice. I'm Benjamin Thomas <last name>. Plan was/is to name my hypothetical son Thomas Benjamin <last name> to mess with the family tradition. Son's middle name is their dad's first name.

Edit: And that mane of hair is incredible. Congratulations!
I love his hair!
He looks like Mac’s mom
My gosh his hair such a Little Rock star
Is that gordan ramsey?
He's adorable! Congratulations to you and your partner. Got any advice for anyone else looking to make something of their life? Asking for a friend.
I can’t get over that hair! Omg 
And that baby’s name?

Albert Einstein
Omg the hair! Incredibly cute
He looks like Rod Stewart
Congratulations! His hair us so radiant! He's like the sun.  So beautiful!
Holy fucking shit I thought my daughter was born with a lot of hair
"Congratulations, you've given birth to a uhh, Rod Stewart."
Nah fam. That's rick from rick and morty. 
Oh man!! That’s a cutie!! Congrats!! ❤️
Raising kids is awesome! (5yr daughter and 2yr son here).

It's also the scariest thing ever. I'm constantly nervous if I'm raising them well and being a good dad.
Wow little guy looks cute and like a Dandelion. Please don't name him as such OP. Lots of best wishes to you and your family.
Yo this is totally Mrs. Mac from It’s always Sunny! 
Wow! Congrats. What a cute lil guy. My name is Benjamin Thomas. Funny to see my name backward like that. I did a double take. 
Can you give us a tutorial as to how to get that hair styled so fabulous? 
With hair like that, your son is destined to become [the lead singer of The Sex Pistols.](https://flavorwire.files.wordpress.com/2014/11/johnnyrotten.jpg?w=1920)
hey thats my dads name...right on man
Great advice on that blanket. When sleeping, keep that boy on his back. 
That's Mrs. Mac. 
Thomas banjamim button??
Barry Manilow?
Congrats! He’s amazing!!! 
Mate thatts christopher walken.
Baby Rod Stewart
Congratulations on both the beautiful baby and turning your life around
Congratulations, Pops. The best is yet to come. 
His hair is awesome!
Micheal Scott’s “That kids gunna have a lit of hair”
Hello Thomas! Welcome to the world. Sometimes it sucks mate, but there's beauty in it, too.   Have a good day of eating and pooping and learning. 
Let us the truth OP! How did you get a Saiyan baby. On a side a note congrats :)
Put some fuzz on the lip of his mouth and he becomes Einstein
Looks like Mac’s Mum.
Do ya think i'm sexy vibes here
congratulations, man
I feel like he's going to take you to flavortown when he gets older.
Congrats on your baby Rod Stewart!!!
Downvote 
All that hair!! He is beautiful!
Listen here *burp* Morty.
Needs a Guy Fierri beard to enter Flavotown.
Guy Fieri Jr.
Thomas Benjamin Button?
Did you... win him?
All that hair! Idk if you’re mom or dad. But mom must have had killer freaking heartburn! He’s so beautiful ♥️ congratulations 
Such a beautiful baby! Love his hair! Gorgeous! Bless you.
Is this baby rick from rick and morty?
He's not your reward. Your job is to support him, not the other way around.
[removed]
It's little Rickkk
Haha. We’re were thinking Joe Dirt lol
I was born with blond hair so I looked like I was bald 
Rod Stewart
Surely Bach no?

>Back is best


But now OP is gonna have a tragic death for being his parent
I'm Baby Fieri, and this is Babies, Boobs, and Bottles!

*Speeds away in fischer price car*
Seriously, who puts frosted tips on a baby?
It looks like Guy Fieri and Anne Burrell had a child.
😂
When he gets to school he's going to be assigned *that* seat.
Yeah we figured we’d have fun while it lasted 
Seriously. He’s the best thing ever 
3000 lol like everyone. But my wife only had heartburn like 4 days throughout the whole thing 
Huh?
That was exactly my first thought upon seeing this! 🤣
heb hob
Literally watching IASIP When Macs dad gets out of prison  right now and was my first thought haha.
Here it is, right on the money. Need to hear that baby say "I don't find you to be an attractive man."
Wonder how his Saiyan scream is...
Well Thomas Benjamin is grandfathers first name and my middle name 
Work hard, do the right things and the right things happen is my best advice. And get any extra weight off their shoulders the best they can 
Well, that was anticlimatic.

Sirs! Ma'ams! Please downvote by clicking the button. Don't spam the comment feed with 'downvote' unless you're further elaborating!

>user.type = 'bot'; I am a bot. *bleep bloop*
I don't think you get what OP is trying to say at all. 
Well you seem fun
[deleted]
Baby Guy Fieri?
Or name him Calvin and get him a stuffed tiger.
Tobin Bell
Sting. Definitely Sting.
It’s pronounced dirtè
Thats the most hair on a little one i've ever seen.. my fist thought was he has Rod Stewart hair. Congrats!
Weird question...when a baby is born is their hair soaked with gunk?
Guy fieri jr
Rod Stuart!
Keith Richards?
Is the father of the baby Rod Stewart ?  He has his 80's hair.
You sound like good people. Congratulations, he's beautiful!!
Or Barry Manilow.  Does your baby know anyone named Mandy or Lola?
Gonna make great cutscene flashbacks during power ups though. Super emotional. 
OP! Stay away from alleys and operas!
This is too good!
My son was born with lots of hair all over his body. He’s 4 years old and still hairy. It could stay! 😂 he’s got crazy thick hair like me 
How is heartburn relavent here? 
Oh, frick! Thanks for the correction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FO8MyXDYHqk
[Hello](https://media.giphy.com/media/xT9DPpf0zTqRASyzTi/giphy.gif)
[removed]
Rod Stewart
Damnit I came to make a flavour town joke but I have been beaten to it!
Mac’s mom
Just left vagina station and on my way to titty town! 
Til, OP is guy fieri. 
That's EXACTLY what I was going to say, lol!
He was born on the Downtown Train haha
Jane Goodall, is that you?
Its an old wives' tale that if you experience a lot of heartburn,  the baby will have a lot of hair. I think.  
You’re welcome, fellow redditor.
You're all wrong it's baby Christopher Walken
this
This comment is on point
Yes 🙌🏻
That's interesting
Too lazy to provide sourcing, but apparently it’s actually not a wives tale. It’s not that the hair causes the heartburn or anything, but there’s a correlation between the two due to some sort of actual factors. 
No no no it’s clearly Christopher Crawlen ftfy
That.
Haha :)
Had a hairy baby & crazy heartburn. Can confirm. 
Oh shit nice one 
and the other 
Well that settles it
Wait, first ask if OP is secretly a cat.
