I think I'll pass

Oasis was the coolest part of FO3, although Harold still gives me nightmares.
Pretty sure this is the plot of speaker for the dead.
I like that character, he was in fallout 1 and I think 2 I really like to see reoccurring character. 
I'd do it. WHO'S GOT TINY WOOD NOW, KAREN???
Except Harold never died until you decide to kill him in fallout 3
I put Harold out of his misery for that precious damage resistance. 

I was hoping if you left him alive, the greenery would spread, but that doesn’t occur. 
So how do you take the capsule? It definitely looks too big to swallow. 
Do you want ents? Because this is how you get ents.
I mean by your mid 20s, most of the cells in your body that you were born with have been replaced. So the physical matter that made you is now being used inside some other living organism. 
Sometimes the meat slides right off the bone, if you know what I mean. Heh heh. Whoo. That was a wild time.
That character always reminded of the stapled lippy big boi in Resident Evil
i killed him, im a merciful god
https://imgur.com/a/canm1DK
 I am Groot. 
"Cut me down and make me into wicked cool guitars and skateboards."
I was thinking more of this result.
 https://imgur.com/i7cLEec
Do you want haunted forests? Because that’s how you get haunted forests
I wonder how this capsule even would work
I understood this reference. 
Didn’t! Got killed!
Mom? Why are you modelling? Get back to your hole. 
I was sure this was /r/me_irl
but he's alive...
I remember saving obsessively before making decision whether to leave him alive or kill him. Making decisions like that made me so anxious.
Technically, he never died.
Zetsubou No Shima flashbacks intensifies 
Wouldn't the graveyard just mow down the sapling?
&nbsp;
I think that only works for the piggies.
Shit, take my money.
But what about the Deku tree?

Or Ents?  Maybe this is how Ents are born.
I'll pass too.  Imagine they cut yo ass down in the future to make toilet paper.  Fuck that!!!
I’d get buried in a regular cemetery with this. That would be a good last jab at the world from the grave. 

Edit autocorrect fail
Same logic: if a bear eats me, I become the bear. 

No, it turns you into tree food good sirs. 
Great now you can bee a pee totem after you die.
This was the other way around though
Have you ever seen, a tree? No, I’m not talking about those shriveled black things!
There's an episode on the No sleep podcast that is about a guy who is a tree. Its eerie as fuck. 
If I was a self\-concious tree, I think I'd really like living like that. Sure, I'd eventually go mad, but still. You don't really have to worry anything, and if you were cut off or something, at least the pain would end, right?
I think I need more info on that capsule
I keep thing about those nasty apple trees from Wizard of Oz
Holy shit we need to make Haunted forests.
That was a twisted ass mission lol
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TXtVzj9y-bo#t=4m42s
Not the most delightful of images to use to sell the product. 
My sister insists she's too afraid of "dying again" when one of our family members inevitably forgets to care for her.
So I may turn into Eddie from Iron Maiden huh... 🤔 Mesa like it!
The Pequeninos will be pleased. 
Then you become someone’s coffee table or better yet someone’s wall! 
I mean if I grew into a tree from the the Living Forest in Mortal Kombat it would be okay...
Do they at least put a tv or something in front your tree self? I dont want this otherwise. 
Yeah I'd rather *not* look like the night mother, please.
I never played Fallot, isn't he like a mutant or something? 
UnIronically some people will actually look better as a tree
Guess I have to replay Point Lookout. Great.
I never found this when I played 3. I don't know how that happened, but it did. Maybe I should get to playing it again instead of going through New Vegas for the 5th time.
That wonderful moment when you find Oaisis and discover that brown is not the only color in the game...
nah not even close.  I'm conflicted about it.  It seemed to break a general rule of the game and that area, and then semi-re-established it... and then you burn it all down anyway so who cares.  But it is one of many examples of just how awesome and varied and deep that gameworld was.
Eh yeah kinda
SPOILER ALERT DO NOT READ BELOW

except it's not just anyone, and it's not when they happen to die.

It's select elders who are killed in a ritual and are reborn as trees.

IIRC. Sadly, I have only read my favorite book once.


You’re right Fallout needs to go back to their roots.
He was in Fallout 3 also. Some people have formed a cult around him.

He asks you to put him out of his misery, but doing so would have bad consequences. I chose not to kill him.
Why are people telling you he's in 3? The picture is from 3... you clearly recognized him from the picture.
He was also in 3 but you had the option to burn his tree down at the end of the quest.
~fallout jesus~
c'mon man. you missed re-oak-urring? That's just laziness.

Apparently he made an appearance in the FO title that is not to be named as well. 
Shit, I thought that was Eddie for a sec. 
He was in the town of gecko as the town leader
And three!
[Its a lot more painful that you think](https://youtu.be/aRoIU6lADn8?t=2m24s) (SCP)
Kay, this made me guffaw. Well done.
I mean, it was the nice thing to do. 
That would be awesome. It was so cool finding that lush greenery in the otherwise dead wasteland.
It does in the post-game.
If fallout 3 had more gems like this it would make the bugs bearable
Good news!  It's a suppository!
Probably buried with you I'm guessing
If I'm not mistaken, it's a capsule where they take the ashes of a cremated person and add it to a mix with tree seeds and probably soils other fertilizer or something to grow a tree
It’s a suppository 
Well played
That's some next level Theseus' ship stuff right there.
So you’re telling me if I eat a chicken it could technically be made of me? 
The character's name was Daddy Fat Stacks
stab the heart for mercy and a perk.
man that game was a blast
I’d totally be down if it makes me a band member of Iron Maiden!
Your body gets composted, a seed is planted from which a tree may grow.  
Might as well get the woodchipper and turn people into entire meadows.
It’s got seeds+the ashes, you could do the same thing for pennies on the dollar
He was friends with Richard Grey, they both got mutated by FEV. His name is Harold.
I believe he was standing next to a tree when the nuclear blasts went off and fused with the tree. He's been alive for hundreds of years and wants to die but this group worships him like a god.
I didn't find it until my 3rd playthrough of Fo3
It's up the very northern part of the map if memory serves (we're talking something 8 years since I played that game so don't quote me on it).

Literally worth replaying for, one of my favourite quests in the whole game, hits you right in the feels and has some epic consequences attached to it.

I love New Vegas but Fallout 3 will forever be my favourite... Assuming a new fallout won't be able to top it.

I remember the radio guy hinting about the oasis of green trees ... finally found it, the entrance is well hidden, but a fun side quest 
I also didn't find it until my second 
My little piggies. 
I think I've read all the books in both series and I don't remember this part all that clearly 
Have you read the rest of them? That series is good as hell.
Their biology turns them all into trees when they die, but the ritualistic disembowelment of the select elders allows for them to retain their consciousness and communicate while in tree form
This is generally correct. You have to be slaughtered in a certain way to be reborn as a father tree, effectively entering the third life. The first is as one of the little buggy things crawling along the bark of a mother tree (infant). The second is as the pequininos they interact with and the third is as a father tree who act as a method of some sort of tribal worldwide communication network, as well as fertilizing mother trees with some sort of wood jizz.

Edit: Worth noting that any brother could be 'planted' but culturally it was a standard to do it as an honor. Since father trees could make things at will out of wood if any pequininos needed things from the trees, many brothers could be planted.
pretty sure bethesda cannon ending was them cutting ties from their roots
Yeah, it's interesting how it's branched out though.

Furthermore, Carthage must be cut down.
Well it seems they have branched out.
Take your damn upvote
Why don’t you bark about it some more?!
Haha I get it
Shut the fuck up, take your upvote, and go home for the day
Interesting!

I reluctantly agreed
>he was in Fallout 3 also. 

The picture is from 3 - that’s where the op recognised him from. 
I remember when I stumbled upon that place. It was dark times for those weird ass people. No survivors. Harold was old af and miserable anyway
You can also set him on fire with the flamethrower, it’s pretty brutal
To some people fallout 3 was the first fallout it seems. 
You can skip everything and do it from the beginning with a well-aimed molotov
Well, well, well, what do we have here? Classified information breach? Unacceptable.
What kind of SCP doesn't have the number in the title? Unacceptable filing practices.
I absolutely [loved this song](https://youtu.be/yuRpfLXuTUg?t=2m44s) in the club scene in "what if drugs were legal"
Oh shit, confinement!
>There's a giant slug downstairs that transforms into your greatest sexual desire, but this is too much?

#
>Wait, it transforms?
I really enjoyed that show.  Thanks for linking it.
Neat, I had no idea someone made SCP animations. Thanks for the link.
What the hell? Did they made a full comedy show based on SCP? lol Internet will never cease to amaze me.
except you had to burn him alive
Thanks professor
Technically yes. 

Especially if you fed it pieces of you or your excrement. Would speed up the process/odds of it happening. 

Eh close? Iirc he was a (FEV) ghoul like any other from one of the west coast vaults, decided to walk across the country and a plant started to grow from his head. Decided he liked it but it got out of hand. 

Basically. 
Nah he got infected with FEV (the stuff that makes Super Mutants) and starts off as looking like just a Ghoul in Fallout 1. Then he started to mutate a bit more in 2 with a tree or something starting to grow out his head and then in 3 he became an Ent.
Your last then?
I had a long conversation about this the other day actually. 4 was great, and had some awesome quests. In my opinion, it was too dense, populated, and too consequence free. Also it turned into one punch man for me which is great but gets a bit old.  3 will remain my favorite for now. 
I've only read Ender's Game, Ender's Shadow and Speaker for the Dead.

I've been told that the series is downhill from there, so obviously I'm going to finish my all time favorite series, but I'm also not rushing to a letdown. 
an important distinction that I forgot.
Well they have branch out more.
I'd settle for Obsidian.
They're turning over a new leaf 
It took far, far too long for someone to realize this. 
Yeah, but it wasn't clear whether the person I responded to knew that. I've only actually seen him in 3.
Ahhh mate, you sadist
Kids these days I swear. 
A mini nuke worked in a pinch too!
I was consistently surprised nuking a tree sis nothing more than set it on fire.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n93iGMiySvY
I mean that I would putting SCP in the post so people would know it is about an SCP, else most who haven't seen the animated series would go "WTF is this?"
No, you could go down to the root system and destroy his heart for a more humane approach. 
hate to break it to you.. that was the "bad" ending to that mission
He literally tells you to kill his heart
That annoyed the shit out of me.
The plot for 4 just didn't bring me in as much as 3 and New Vegas, I can't quite put my finger on it though. Still a great game though for sure
I have the opposite feeling for 4 in terms of density. It feels like the world is empty because of the settlement building. It had a lot of NPCs, but they were throwaway people with no personality outside your followers and the special recruitable settlers. There was a lot good in 4, but I feel the world was the worst yet for a Fallout game. 
Yeah obviously Enders game and Speaker for the Dead are on a different level, but it's nice to complete the story, even if it takes a weird turn.
Xenocide & Children of the Mind were fine sci-fi, just not as good as the others

They made for great books on tape for road trips
Same book I stopped with. 
I'm a sucker for puns but let's nip this in the bud shall we?
that's not a settle, that's a major upgrade
How wouldnt he know it he literally wrote „I like that character“. 
Wait is this real?
what is SCP?
I was more concerned about the video title than your link. The creator must follow proper filing procedures or face immediate termination.
I did think that but I also loved it.
oh    


^^well ^^shit
^^oops
What did, skipping the heart killing part? 
Yeah that's a good way to put it. I did enjoy it, the story was good but I couldn't really get into it. And the consequences thing bugged me. There were some really fantastic quests in 4 but it just felt different. Made me miss the capitol wastes 
The lack of dialogue options kinda ruined 4 for me 
I think the voicing of the protagonist and limiting the dialogue tree affected it. Consequences were underwhelming too, but FO4 made for a decent FPS at least 
Yeah I agree with that. Maybe that's a better way to put it. Something bugged me about the world and its setup 
I think the issue with Bethesda is they get stumped with keeping their games lore friendly. Maybe they are barking up the wrong tree with FO4?
You wood like that, wooden shoe?
Took five posts for a lazy meta pun, eh? Can't keep on topic so we need to skip to "these puns are oak-ay, but I can't beleaf this turned into a pun thread XD!1"
Yep
http://fallout.wikia.com/wiki/Harold
http://www.scp-wiki.net/

or

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SCP_Foundation?wprov=sfla1
Someone else can give a better explaination but since you haven't been answered in 20 minutes, The SCP Foundation is a community-driven fictional top-secret goverment archive of supernatural objects, beings, and phenomena. Standing for Secure, Contain, Protect, the SCP Foundation is dedicated to keeping these things, or SCPs, contained and out of public view. 


It really goes in depth, and the story of the SCP Foundation is told through *literally thousands* of "archived entries", each explaining the behavior of  specific SCPs. I forgot which ones are regarded as the best written, but if you're interested here's the first hundred  or so. http://www.scp-wiki.net/scp-series#001


If you want an immersive explaination, [here's the SCP Foundation About page](http://www.scp-wiki.net/about-the-scp-foundation)


and here's the non immersive explaination [from the wiki's wiki.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/SCP_Foundation)
Umm if you're asking seriously... Scp is a series of short stories which involve cryptids and supernatural stuff.
Totally, I think the characters were a bit more mundane too. Trying to pick between 3 factions that I didn't really care much for took away the stakes for me. 

I didn't feel like I'd be losing anything if I picked one faction over another. It wasn't as immersive as the others.

I just wanna play fallout now :p
I agree, I'm hoping they step up for the next one 
We can only hope for a better one next time fren
Perhaps it's time to leaf the franchise alone? Maybe someone at Bathesda has even already twigged onto this?
They need to just make like a tree, and get out of here
This Tread is deadwood you stop it can we decline into normal posts or dieback into your mancaves? Callus if you agree as these Puns are making my teeth grind. now that were all alder and can learn from this and yew can stop
Hey man, not everyone knows everything and that's ok.
[Here's a relevant XKCD.](https://xkcd.com/1053/)
Yew can’t be serious, there’s still millions of players that pine for more. 
Yea I ..uh .. tree!
They should birchase obsidian and let them develop all the fallout games
It's "leave", you idiot! "Make like a tree, and leave"! You sound like a damn fool when you say it wrong!
I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say
I'm rooting for you, buddy!
*Bush* did 9/11
Wood
damn, where does your enthusiasm stem from?
It's treeson then.
let's leaf that topic for another day.
Not just the men, but the dioecious trees and the monoecious trees, too! 
