MRW people give gold to Reddit admins for their announcement posts

They give it to themselves.
BORTLES 
Holy crap, I've seen this gif around for a long time now, but this is the first time I've seen it with a slightly longer intro of him laughing
Never noticed the dude in the back who's doing something very similar. 
I severely question people who buy Reddit gold for any purpose. You're paying money to plant a tiny little pixel star on some comment people will forget tomorrow. The features of the website it unlocks are literally useless so it's not like you're buying someone a gift.
Dude reminds me of Qwark from Deep Space 9 for some reason.
This guy is a Columbine survivor
Go Jags!!
What’s the source for this? 
i love this gif so much.
Can someone post the original non reversed 
Why is this in reverse
Their blogs and announcements are all nonsense, too. "Le Russian bots!"
Ikr
 Just give it to me! I am a niceguy who deserves it!/s
Goal is to support reddit, not the user who gets it. One can look for a life time for someone worthy, but in the end, it doesn't really matter.
Maybe they gave it to themselves like it's a chevron or something
I used to get golds. But then I took a gif to the knee. 
Especially when they make an announcement to announce a fuckin lie, like "There are no more Russian bots, every social media site is under attack except us. There were less than a thousand and they were from 2015-2016, nothing in the past two years, we're good now, nothing to see here."
Well, people who buy gold do it to support reddit. Maybe they gild the reddit announcement to be more direct about it.
I lol'd. And here I am with no gold. *feels bad man*
how does one get gold?
I deserve a gold 
*please*
There’s a theory that guy went to school with  Eric and Dylan from columbine 
Go Titans
That score makes me hard tho, all hail MariGOATa
Someone give me some gold plz
A kind of self-congratulatory-masturbation ego trip. 
Wow...that actually makes a lot of sense. I assume it costs them nothing and t gives the illusion that the common redditors really like what they’re saying. 
I'm trying to give you gold but there is an error in my address line, wait :)
That’s what I always thought. 
Can someone explain this joke?
Jake Jortles!
>BIG DICK BORTLES 

ftfy.
https://i.imgur.com/BnSUmVn.jpg
Damnit. So close but so far away from free gold. 
Fucking garbage lmao
It's reversed.
It never showed him sniffing his hand before either.  Wonder why.....
I'm paying money to support a free service. I like Reddit very much. I know the features that come with it aren't particularly exciting, but if I see something funny or helpful, I can support the website and potentially brighten someone's day at the same time. That's a fair price to pay for me. 
I think its more to support reddit since it's free. The same thing when you subscribe to a twitch streamer, it's to support the streamer.
As someone that browses reddit 98% of the time from his phone and doesn't care for most apps, it's worth it for the ad blocking and new comment highlighting to me. As much as I don't particularly want to support reddit these days. 
You are paying a small fee that makes someone's day and supports a site that entertains you...win/win to me.
Every comment should have a link to the users paypal account, and instead of gilding the comment you just send them 5 bucks
And this Reddit silver bullshit is even worse.  It's spam, another way of saying 'This!".

/r/NoMoreRedditSilver
Whenever I've had it, the only thing that's useful is the highlighted new comments. Makes it easy to read large threads and spot the new comments.
It's like a super thumbs up.  Some folks like to make others feel good.
An NFL game where the Titans were beating the Jaguars 23-3
$$$
Like this. 
There's also a school picture from a rally/assembly with all of them.

[Here - found the photo - 1999](http://i.imgur.com/SmX8b1p.jpg)

The shooters are pointing finger-guns...    >.<
No
or maybe they're just lazy to write the post and when one co-worker does it, they be like:

"DUDE You posted it, you're the real mvp here"
Fixed it :D 
*hurls molotov cocktail*
Did you know Blake Bortles is undefeated in 190 countries? 
You must be a Titans fan.  
Besides the clock, you can also tell because when people do the "outer nose wipe" they never motion away from the nose, always towards it. It's one of those universal truisms very much well established in our post-modern society.
Clock on the gif says different
I can tell by your trophies you take your gilding seriously.
That was pretty r/wholesome.  Thanks for all you do even if some people like me don’t really understand it!
Getting rid of ads is a nice bonus
A free service that uses your data and is a major platform for astroturfing/marketing/political propaganda? Oh boy, that's just dandy. 
It also adds weight to the comment. If you think that it’s an important message that deserves more attention, you can make that statement with your money
🙄
You're paying to support Russian bots and white supremacists.
Corporate Reddit needing support rofl.
Sounds like a win for reddits profit line to me.
Source?
* reddit silver 
Getting a month added to their infinite gold must be the inhouse version of an upvote.
Thanks man!
FUCK THE TITS
What, you don't try to wipe the snot back into your nose?
The clock counts down in American football, so it has indeed been reversed
Unless it counts down...
And yet, here you are.
And yet, here you are!
yes, corporations need revenue to survive
AWS gets fucking expensive.
One can try ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
I thought he was checking for blood but still too distracted by the score to actually look at his hand.
Probably because there are no good alternatives to Reddit. All of them are either incredibly racist, or very small. 
I'm enlightened and immune. I have watched all of Werner Herzog's movies. 
