Hmmm....I wonder how this machine works.

She break her neck? My neck hurts just watching that 
We Were on the verge of greatness (at first she put her left foot in the right spot)
I love how she got her left foot in properly, and then took it out when her right foot was on wrong.
I feel so much embarrassment on her behalf. 
Only 9 more face plants to go! Let's do this!
She definitely knows how the machine works, she just messed up. Her left foot was in the right place at first. She wouldn’t have leaned forward so carelessly if she didn’t think her feet were in the right place.
Why does she keep getting back on?
r/fullscorpion
Wait there are cameras at the gym.
She went full scorpion 🦂 
Why world the gym publicly post this video? I would never go there.
So I can’t use that machine because I’m too afraid this will happen lmao 
Yep....that's pretty much how smooth I am at the gym
More like"I wonder how physics work" 
At least she is in the gym trying.
She thought her first foot was under the bottom one. She had the right idea, just shoulda lifted her feet to double check first lol.
She did it mostly right, looks like she just messed up thinking the right foot was in the right place and the left foot was wedged incorrectly
r/holdmyfeedingtube
Sad part is she was actually so close to getting it right.
"Trust fall"
Blonk
Soo close to getting it right
Not like that 
That must be a very entertaining job, watching the cameras at a gym. I'm sure stuff like this happens every day
Never to be seen again
/r/muscleconfusion
Let’s be honest, if you don’t know how to use the machines, only your imagination sets limits for how you can sit on them
That’s brutal.. but that’s one of those machines that doesn’t have any pictures to show how to use it, it sucks looking like a rere trying to figure it out. 
I bet she yelled at the assistant manager so hard. 
Ouch. 
At least she got in a solid half rep.
She was so confident getting on, too.
Lucky for her, her neck broke her fall
Because gravity, love. 
You see the red part where your foot should rest under it?. There is an idantical one few inches down so i guess she wanted to have her feet on the first one from the bottom so the would lock at the second one.
That is a glute ham raise and it is not how you use that piece of equipment. Still fantastic though. 
Ah yea
The forward leaning neck extender 
Great machine 
Why isn't there a picture of how the machines should be used on each one?  I'm no regular to the gym and I've been totally flabbergasted by what some of them are supposed to be used for.
Don't skip neck day.
Was this camera there purely to look at people butts when they’re on that machine?
This person can vote.

This person probably drives.
I hate when people like this are made fun of. They are new to working out and are trying to make a positive change in their life.


Oh no girl, what is you thinking
9/10 scorpion
Scorpion
This lady hates her neck more than Japanese wrestlers 
Wearing a hat and sunglasses in doors? Yep sure sign she's a moron.
This is why people dont go to gyms - theyre afraid of judgemental assholes who record and share videos of them trying to make it happen. 
Heard she's still lying there till this day
Glorious, spectorious 
Thats why i stay away from machines at gym i dont know how to use
I love how she does something so wrong with such confidence. 

Isn't that a roman chair / GHR bench?

I never knew how weak my hamstrings were until I used one of these.
this is why i dont go to the gym
For anyone curious, that is NOT how you are suppose to do that.
This seems more of a well that's stupid rather than well that sucks 
Just 7 more reps of that and she’s done with her first set! Woo, you go girl!
New subreddit: r/fullneckscorpion
I’ve never seen a neck take such a blow
Please tell me there is a subreddit for gym idiots
Summer is coming!) 
Me at the gym 
Judgement Free Zone TM 
Doh she almost had it!
She got the tombstone piledriver. 
God I hate that machine. But those glute-ham-raises are so good
That’s why the machines have pictures of proper use on the side. I may not know what I’m doing either, but the pictures help you not break your neck.
Darwin Awards: Gym Edition
I give her props for her commitment to faking her knowledge on unfamiliar gym machines. 


I don't even try because I'm afraid of exactly this happening. 
The neck stretcher
Ooo, I literally cringed at this!
Do you think security uploads these things, risking their jobs, or they get uploaded because it was used in a lawsuit?
Oh my god...
Using the GHD properly fucks you up enough already.
/r/HoldMyCosmo 
/r/muscleconfusion
This is why you never wear hats in the gym 
This is SO planet fitness , the judgement and common sense free zone 
Happy New Year!
She was trying to get that booty poppin.
I guess she doesn't know how to use the machine.
r/bettereveryloop
What bothers me most is that she's wearing a hat in the gym.
I’ve been working overnights in a gym. This isn’t surprising at all.
so close
Luckily, her neck broke her fall
Drunk at the gym.
Almost had it
Glute ham raise. Doubtful she could have done one rep. I wish every gym had this machine.
This needs the "GTA wasted" shit on it.
So close
She wanted to become slimmer, but she broke her nose.
Wait is that not how?
Literally me the first time I started going to the gym, LoL good times.
Someone did this at my gym once, but they actually had their feet under the pads, they just unfortunately forgot to fully stick the pin in to lock it. As soon as she started to descend, the pads popped right off and she smacked her face on the metal legs. There was a trail of blood on the floor as she was rushed out. 
Definitely makes me double check that pin everytime I get on it now. 
No one ever seen this gravity tester before?
That's why you always adjust the equipment before using...
I remember this happened to me once in high school. Luckily I was able to break my fall with my arm
I can imagine her trying to sue, so they just played back the video to her
Almost a scorpion.
She had it right the first time 
The level of scorpion comments bolsters the theory that free will is an illusion  
dont fuck up because someone will post the video of it on the internet
So funny
What did she expect to happen?
T H I C C 
The best thing about this is her confidence! 
Hey, at lest her shoes match the 6 inches of shirt that’s showing 
Oh shit!
I’ve seen people doing worse in my gym 
she was so close 
Wow 240 lbs on the back of her neck...
My fear when going to the gym.  So glad some have pictures on how to use them.  Lol...
Can't remember how many times I've seen this here...
Come on you can do 10 head smashes, stop slacking haha
I dont think she was ignorant of how the machine works me thinks she thought she had her legs under the bottom pad when she moved them above the top pad
Someone skipped their morning coffee. 
It sucks feeling awkward in the gym. 
Why would anyone think that is how it works?
She introduced her face to the floor wth authority. 
She is a re tard
Dat ass do
unexpected scorpion
I never understood why people put hats on in the gym. 
r/peoplefuckingdying
Ahh, the Flippenator 5000 -- working as designed.
r/CrossFit at it again
Only 9 more reps
Ouch
Why does she keep getting back on?
How does that machine works anyway?
She kinda got it right at first but switched her leg position 
It's that stupid hat
Ass over teakettle
I have actually made that same mistake once. But I guess I have a little more coordination, because as soon as I started to lean forward and my feet came off the pad, I was able to stop myself realizing that I was fucking up.
How stupid do you have to be for this to happen? 
FYI most workout machines have a instructions on the machine itself to show you the proper way to use it. 
Ooohhh, so close
This is why I don't go to the gym-- because I know that someone will be guaranteed to see my dumb ass do something... dumb.
Lady what the heck?
Holy fuck! She could break her neck!! Not cool!
Gonna be honest, I laughed so hard that I missed the movement skip and thought she was trying the exact same thing again.
Broken neck 
Didn't learn physics? Or just forgot to apply the laws😂
She got on that shit confidently too 
Natural selection at its finest
I kind of feel bad for her, but that machine isn't even hard to understand
[r/idiotsfightingthings](https://www.reddit.com/r/idiotsfightingthings)
By the way, what does standard gym etiquette says about asking random strangers in the gym for advise?

It is weird yes but is it acceptable to ask nearby gym bros on how to use a machine? 
She's probably in less pain falling on her face than she would be had she actually used the machine right. That's a GHR and it will light your hamstring and glutes up for days. Feels like the fucking devil clawed at your posterior chain.
Why are you recording people at a gym to begin with?
And that's why you should be glad you're even earning 70 cents on the dollar, honey.  
She knows how to use the machine, she just misplaced her legs. You can see her left leg goes in the right spot, but her right leg is too high. She re-adjusts thinking that her left leg is too low, and goes for the correct movement, only to find that she misplaced her legs. 

But lets all laugh at this stoopid idiot who goes to the gym haha what a loser.
And now, she will sue the company and even though they're not in the wrong, they'll settle, because their lawyers will tell them it's cheaper to settle. This is the world we've crafted.
/r/WhyWereTheyFilming
Physics appears to be working as intended. Thanks for checking on that.
She was like, 'This is a lot like my filthy contraption at home...only without the thrusting dildo!'.
[deleted]
u/Thethrillofitall1025 HAHAHAHAHA
Did she died?
x post to Hold My Fries lol fatties in the gym are HILARIOUS

They are. You can't be fat for very long if you make an honest effort of it.  Watching people be bad at stuff and ineffective in their efforts is objectively funny.
Your average libtard
[deleted]
Gym experience or not, that's a pretty moronic move
/r/fullscorpion
Hat fell off. She dead
Nah man you'd be surprised how far you have to turn someone's neck for it to break. She's good.
No pain no gains!
Im sure shes fine, ive seen and heard about an absurd amount of people falling out of those.
She should be fine 'should'
Shit would have broken me in half. 
Hopefully - that would help save the human genome, that's for sure.
Her shoes are still on so I think shes ok.
That went from *this ought to be good* to genuinely unpleasant to watch in a split second. 
Full scorpion. Filled by a quick stand up and pray that no one saw that.
Yeah I'd say she demonstrates knowing how the machine works. She just messed up. I've injured myself on gym equipment as well. There's a distinction to be made between this and having no fucking clue what a strange contraption is supposed to even do.
Yes, but it was all faceplant from there.
What is his? Like a machine for back crunches?
r/prequelmemes is leaking
I think I know what happened here. 

She put her left foot in the correct spot, but thought it was below the correct spot. She then proceeded to put both legs on the top one, and then started raising her legs expecting there to be a top one to stop them, which didn't happen since her legs were already on the top one 
i mean not everyone has crystal clear deduction skills ... sometimes your brain just stops and ukno shit happens 
I think she thought her correct foot was below the bottom foot hold and then thought she corrected them both to be correctly between the the two foot holds. She isn’t looking when she adjusts and when you get into these machines you definitely feel the stretch and want to adjust. She also waves her feet a bit as she’s falling as if wondering where the footholds went. 

Maybe that’s all obvious. But if not, it at least explains a more understandable mistake. 
 technically she was never on the right spot. This machine is not really the best for back extensions, it's for sit ups. She should be facing up
>I feel so much embarrassment on her behalf. 

I know, if I was there instead of her I'd do three sets of five reps of the exact same thing. That's right. I know what I'm doing.
She was hoping no one at the gym saw her, and now the entire internet saw her. We live in Hell.
\#nobodysawthatright?
Edit: added backslash. 
And her hat came off too. Now her face is exposed
At least she goes to the gym.
At least this is just an accident.  She didn't decide to set herself on fire first or anything.
There's a great German word for that, it's fremdschämen
I think that's the definition of cringe
How is it embarrassing? Like at all, I'm just worried she injured herself or something
I mean, uploading an embarrassing video of someone who's just trying to get in shape... That's being an asshole.
Feeling the burn
She did them all! 

Wait she’s still.... 

Oh, oh no. 
Holy shit. Nice one. 
Yeah it's easy to mess up that machine. Im a bodybuilder and I did the exact same thing the first week training someone new. She watched the whole thing but couldn't say something in time. 
She thinks that's how it works
(chuckles)

I'm in danger.
Bruce why do we fall? So we can learn to pick ourselves back up 

Batman
\* ba dum tisss \*
Gotta work those neck muscles some how.
Looks like she just wasn’t paying attention but knows how to use it.
Memory of a goldfish. Oh Ive never tried this one before...oh Ive never tried this one before...oh Ive...
HAHAHAHA BECAUSE GIFS LOOP THAT'S SO CLEVER
another sub to sub
Well there goes my Saturday. 
they are always watching
Yes. Do you know how many hazards are in a gym? I work in a gym and people constantly injure themselves and we have to review the footage to make sure it wasn't a preventable accident. 

You might think it's perverted, but there are also people who like to feign injuries and make a claim. They usually drop the claim when we mention that we will review the footage 
As a business owner, why wouldn't you have cameras? 

If accidents happen where injuries occur you want footage of the event in case they try to file suit against you. Or if damage occurs to your machines you want to see who did it. Or if sexual assault or some other crime occurs you want footage.

Lot of good they do. Stupid not to have them because some people are insecure about exercising less time than they spend stuffing food  down their gullets.
What gym is it?
Next level fitness in johnston RI - i used to go here - the girl actually went and got the video herself to post online because she knew it was funny
How do you know the gym didn't give the footage to her and she decided to post it?
Probably an employee? Can't control your employees at every moment 
My question is why does the gym have a security camera set up at such a narrow angle on just that machine? It’s almost as if someone wants to perv out on the view you can probably get on that particular machine. I would think a wider angle of more of the gym would be the proper cam setup if you really wanted it to make sure you could see everything going on on the floor.
These machines are usually adjustable and requires some common sense. Adjust it to your body, feet under the round pads and against the flat pad. Your body bends over it and you lift up with your core, back, legs. Hold a plate to your chest to increase difficulty.
It took me so long to be able to trust leaning back on it. I thought my feet would manage to slip out somehow no matter how secure they actually were.
This. With all these dangerous accidents and injuries related to falling I cannot believe in 2018 that no politicians have come out in favor of repealing the law of gravity to avoid all these useless injuries and accidents.
yeah, she knows how to use the machine.  She just goofed and took a header.  
lol  

Needed a spotter.
I just ask the kind of person who's lifting 5000 lbs and needs to take 10min breaks between sets. Works best at powerlifting gyms, but people are really helpful if you just ask.
That's a Glute Ham Raise, and if it's made by Hammer or Rogue it's got a diagram right on the side, also many gyms have the exercise listed in a chart on the wall. Also, the internet exists, where you can easily find out the information needed to properly use it...
They should fire the employee for uploading security came footage of a customer humiliating themselves.
Too soon, dude.
Exactly this.
Or maybe you should stop caring what some random low life thinks and do it anyway. There will always be assholes, and sadly there is nothing to do about it.
She gets up again and does the same thing tho. 
Keeps mid to lengthy hair out of the way.
As long as they’re not in the middle of a set, most people don’t mind at all. Just don’t sit there and talk to them for like 20 minutes when they’re trying to get a workout in.
Looks like security camera footage to me 
GHRs aren't easy. If she knew what she was doing she would have known she can't do a single rep.
Misplaced her legs, as in doesn't know what the fuck she's doing.  Or is just really stupid
She should sue the gym for releasing the CCTV video
Security camera 
who did this to you 
Aw
I have to agree. What a fucking retard 
I wonder if she misjudged where her legs are? She seemed to get it right at first, but then readjusted and it turned out she had put them on top?

When I first went to the gym and tried this thing, I was always so afraid I’d fall somehow. My wife had to be really patient with me - I would sort of lie on there like a wooden board because I was petrified of exactly what happened in this gif...
Eh she thought her legs were in-between instead of on top. Just one of those things that happens when your brain is on auto-pilot
I mean, that's just basic physics 
Wisdom is learned through experience.

There is a "first" for everybody
Gym experience or not, you are doomed.
You would think if you were a beginner that you would be even more careful. I've worked with gym equipment for a long time and I still treat it like I was going bungie jumping? When I was a teenager I used my dads weight bench and took off too much weight from one side of the bar so that the bar popped up and hit me in the chin. Swore to never let something like that happen again.
I see people in the gym a lot who knowingly use the machines completely wrong because they're trying to work out some other muscle and it drives me crazy. Maybe she's one of these idiots and is finally getting what was coming to her
[deleted]
I had no idea this existed
Hats are just shoes for the head. 
F
Are you saying all of those Schwarzenegger and Stallone movies lied to me?!?!
You can still get cervical/basal skull fractures. 
A little too confident there guy
Bending forwards is much easier to break than backwards 
Could potentially design a safety catch for your feet 2 feet up. Thoughts?
Could potentially design a safety catch for your feet 2 feet up. Thoughts?
Could potentially design a safety catch for your feet 2 feet up. Thoughts?
But she seems to do her best to break her neck.

Looks spooky.
She's okay though, she saved herself from getting hurt by bracing her fall with her face.  
You can also do abs on that machine. GHD sit ups. Good luck standing up straight after doing abs on that machine. 

https://youtu.be/pMS2dU0FuPk 
It’s called a glute-ham raise machine, or GHR. It’s for your legs — different than a back extension or reverse hyperextension machine.
Back extensions/hyper extension machine
A glute ham raise.  You do glute ham raises on it (surprise!) which are like leg curls, but backwards (you lift your body while your shin stays fixed).  

They can also be used for hip extensions, back extensions and core work though.
Apparently [The worst leg exercise for your back](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Anl0osYkg8).
Hamstrings iirc. Better and safer than leg curls
I guess so
Help, the prequelmemes are taking over!
r/anthologymemes
She’s too short / is too far forward that she didn’t feel the proper placement. You can see a panel for the bottom of your feet to rest on but she was never back that far. 
Actually the machine is called a “glute ham developer” and is designed to be used in a similar fashion to this. It just happens that it can also be used for crunches. See [link](https://www.exrx.net/WeightExercises/Hamstrings/WTGluteHamRaise). 
I need you to do three sets of insurance scams today.  I want you in a cervical collar after this workout.  
You need a backslash before a pound sign or it makes your text huge and bold. \#redditprotips
Do you go to the gym at all? You constantly feel like people are staring at you, because they are and they see every last fucking thing. 
We’re not laughing because of her size, we’re laughing at her (lack of) critical thinking
I don’t know if it’s being an asshole or what, but I sure as hell wouldn’t want this sort of gif of me on Reddit.

I used to feel self conscious at the gym. I’m not out of shape, I am not worried about my body... I just am not an experienced gym goer. So I just felt shy, you know?

Gym people are usually super chill though, and totally non judgmental so I’m not shy at the gym an more.

But falling off of equipment would be mortifying. Seeing it on Reddit would be another level.
From what I’ve witnessed from the gif I’m sure she’s getting *plenty* of fitness
Is this projection or do you actually think the gym is off limits because potential feelings? We can laugh at a gif of someone being silly or dense so long as some internet stranger doesn’t see extra pounds on them and feel bad?
Who cares? No ones making fun of her for working out we’re making fun of her for being stupid. If you don’t know how a machine works, figure it out BEFORE attempting to use it it. It’s safer that way and it’ll save you from shit like this. 
What's this machine? Is it like a back extension bench but flat? I've never seen one.
/r/muscleconfusion
Yep the NSA needs to know that most of the general population is trying to be healthy. And it's really because they look out for our best interest. The NSA is the greatest national-level intelligence agency ever. It's the federal agency we all need but we don't deserve. 
I'd rather sign a waiver than be monitored.  But I'd imagine that you do both.  The camera is just for your entertainment.
World the gym
Globo Gym 
My girlfriend is a personal trainer and this is one of her clients friends. Happened at Maxx Fitness in Providence RI. She should probably hire my girlfriend.
http://nextlevelfitnessri.com
Riiiiiiiiiight
You can zoom in on footage.
I went to this gym, the left is the entrance. Prob why there’s a camera
You misunderstood me lol I understand how to use it, but i can’t shake the feeling that it’s going to topple over with my face meeting the floor. It’s such a good exercise too! 
> and requires some common sense.

This is the part that diqualifies /u/Speedgeezer from using the machine. At least they're self aware!
That’s a hit or miss, some of those dudes/gals are so juiced up that the last thing they want to hear is me asking for advice. In their heads somehow I’m stealing there time/gains/and attraction from the mirrors. 
Well thanks, but last thing I want to do is google a machine while at the gym on how the hell im going to injure my self. 
Someone still took the time to upload it to the the internet. Which is fucked up.
Why? It's their property, it would be pointless as she wouldn't win.
Yeah I think so too, she got on pretty confidently like she’s used it before. Probably just really tired, feel sorry for her.
Well that fear was the one she needed!
I wouldn’t say this is moronic, because we’ve all had days in the gym where we’re way too tired to be working out. In my opinion, you’re completely right, she misjudged where her legs were. But if she hadn’t been jerking her legs so quickly, she could have realized that there wasn’t any resistance and stopped herself before the motion threw her off the machine. That was her biggest mistake of all - moving so quickly that she had no chance of realizing her error before it was too late.
I’ve never seen one of these machines, why is it so high? I would think the motions could be done with a bench the height of a bench press one just laying face down.
If she mistakenly thought her legs were on top, why move them further up?
Hey now, you're on the internet where everyone is an avid gym goer who The Rock even looks upto
I mean your feet press against the back plate to stabilize glute ham raises itd be pretty hard not to notice that part and just start into the movement with your legs curling up freely.

I'm not saying can't ever happen but ya it's pretty up there on dumb shit you could do in the gym.
Yeah I totally faceplant regularly when on auto pilot. Doesn’t everyone?? /s 

FYI if you think this is just a normal thing, you’ve got issues. 
/r/FullScorpion 
there's others too
You may also be unaware of /r/fullshrimp, which is the other way
Does that mean my shoes are feet hats?! 
Very insightful 
Sigh. Don’t believe everything you find on the internet.
Sorry... what?
Those knee snaps look unhealthy as fuck. There are better ways to work your core. 
Technically this is a GHD for glute-ham raises (basically bodyweight hamstring curls). Those are harder and less common than hyperextensions tho so in larger gyms most people use these for hyperextensions.
Not necessarily better, I'd be interested to know why it's safer, and I believe it is a form of leg curl (even though leg curl is not in the name).  

It's a good exercise though.
 Well shit now i guess I'm the fool 
Thx man I’m too old for this shit 👍
I get you but, how is the first thing you think when seeing something like that "wow, how embarrassing"???
I didn't imply anything like that, what I'm saying is the lady tried out an unfamiliar equipment, made a wrong footing (which is understandable since she's both disorientated and fatigued), and gets her fall uploaded to the internet presumably without consent.  
I seriously doubt she agreed to being posted here, which is why I feel like we're a bunch of bullies making fun of someone's accident.  
A few comments down, you'll see a guy explaining why this making-fun-of-people culture discourages people to go to the gym. Which is also my point. And he gets downvoted too. Tell me if that's reasonable.  
People who do that at the comfort of their sofa lacks critical thinking, the woman in the clip? Probably just a slip-up.
I’d like to take this opportunity to share my embarrassing gym story. So I use the treadmill pretty regularly during winter months, and one day I forgot my normal shoes and had to grab the spare pair from my car. Well these shoes had a different “thickness” to them on the soles and apparently one doesn’t realize just how fine tuned they are to the thickness of their shoe bottoms. Treadmills have grippy surfaces to run on. My shoes kept catching on the grippy surface because I wasn’t used to the thickness of the soles and I was misjudging where my foot was going to land. Thicker soles meant my foot was landing a tad sooner than I expected. So I compensated and tried to keep in mind that I need to lift me feet a little more. A few miles in I’m starting to get tired. Form relaxes and I’m more focused on my breathing than lifting my feet a little more. Tripped and stumbled pretty hard on treadmill. Okay, cool, pride hurt but shake it off like nobody saw it. Few minutes later I did it again and fell off the treadmill. Lol I decided that was enough running, time to begin cool down and maybe go home to ice my bruises. 

It felt pretty mortifying. If I saw it on Reddit I’d cringe so hard but I like to think I’d have a laugh about it with everyone else. I don’t think there is enough clarity in this video to necessarily identify who the woman is. You don’t see much of her face and she’s wearing a hat. I haven’t sorted by controversial but I haven’t seen any comments yet criticizing her as a person, just a few saying she did something dumb but hey, we all do dumb things sometimes. 
Luckily no one but her knows it was her.  There's nothing defining about her.  
She didn't even do anything wrong. Just a wrong footing, presumably due to fatigue or poor understanding of the equipment.  
Pretty damn sure this isn't r/watchpeopledie.
> Gym people are usually super chill though

My god, this is such a stupid statement
Poor lady goes to gym, makes wrong footing and falls, gets laughed at by the internet. I'm pretty sure this security camera footage was uploaded without her consent also.  
And you all defend this cuture with such a passion. Just to laugh at others. 
> we’re making fun of her for being stupid.

you're an online bully
Glute ham raise. You basically start with your torso in an upright position kneeling on the pads, then lower yourself to horizontal position, then raise back up again. A lot of people try it first time not realising how difficult it is, good idea is to use a barbell on its end in front of you and sort of ‘climb’ up it with your hands to assist you in building up strength. Once you can do them unassisted you feel like a boss. 
goddammit...
Actually she did
Next level fitness in johnston RI - i used to go here - the girl actually went and got the video herself to post online because she knew it was funny
Seems like everyone on Reddit has been to this gym. There are even a few people giving the exact same replies when someone talks about it. Any one that says anything different gets downvoted. Seems a little suspicious.
Same. This is the only exercise I can't do because I am too scared.
Ok 
You get the information before going, and you won't injure yourself if you do it correctly and with appropriate weight. I do these unweighted myself because I'm already a fat shit without adding more and GHR's are ridiculously hard to begin with.
Yeah, that's true 
I went to this gym for a while - its a local gym in rhode island and she knew rhe staff/posted the video herself
If it was a guy everybody would have said "he is just dumb" lol.
Judging by her XXL frame and leather workout hat, I’m assuming it’s probably her first time at any gym. Ever. 
Had she kept her head up, she probably would have felt t and been able to correct. But she dropped her head and her weight went forward and she slipped off. 
How do you mean? The exercise involves moving your legs up and down. 
You misunderstood. He's saying she mistakenly thought her right leg was in the correct place, and adjusted her left to match.
I have a mind of a scientist, a dick the size of burmese python and arm like a fuckin cannon 
Stupider stuff than this has happened to people on autopilot. I've driven to an old job in the morning, the first 45 minutes of the trip we're the same and then bam at the wrong place. Shit happens, being tired sucks.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/FullScorpion using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/FullScorpion/top/?sort=top&t=all) of all time!

\#1: [Not having bones really helps. X/post from /r/awwnverts](https://i.imgur.com/y2VXyB4.gifv) | [60 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/FullScorpion/comments/7dk7lm/not_having_bones_really_helps_xpost_from/)  
\#2: [Pole vault](https://gfycat.com/GiddyEnergeticBarbet) | [93 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/FullScorpion/comments/79xrdc/pole_vault/)  
\#3: [The rare vertical scorpion makes an appearance at the beach](http://i.imgur.com/3vJXogq.gifv) | [40 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/FullScorpion/comments/77lcmr/the_rare_vertical_scorpion_makes_an_appearance_at/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| [^^Contact ^^me](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| [^^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| [^^Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/7o7jnj/blacklist/)
Yes
Wow 
Shoelaces are just hair-bands for your feet.
[thank you] (http://i.imgur.com/pOj6fPP.jpg) 
So you're saying you *aren't* a 1218 year old man?
Yeah I don't snap my knees like that. Fuck that, I agree with you. I do go till failure though. I have to use the handles to get myself back up to get off of the machine. 
Oh thanks, I did not know that! I go to a gym with less machine equipment so I’ve always seen people using it as multipurpose machine
Alright, what is the difference between a roman chair then?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Anl0osYkg8&ab_channel=ATHLEAN-X%E2%84%A2

What this guy theorizes might be wrong with leg curls. 
On the bright side,

#you can shout now 
Fuck off and lighten up. I’m curious how many angry letters you’ve fired off to America’s funniest videos. It’s funny to watch people mess up and fall down. Not hard to grasp. How do you live this way? 
Could be laughing on the bench between sets for all the fuck you know. 

There are so many machines that I don’t want to begin to try out of fear of this. She did try, failed and had a video uploaded on the internet for people at home to laugh at her. Uncool. 
Why is she a poor lady? Do you even get what I’m saying here? There are tons of videos of people falling and doing dumb shit that are uploaded without consent - this just rubs you the wrong way because you’ve already put this woman down as a poor victim because it’s in a gym and she has to lose weight. I think this touched a nerve more like. 
no u
these will help you add major weight to your deadlift. 
r/curlsinthesquatrack
Lol I’m glad I’m not alone
There no way you can’t tell exactly which gym this is or if this woman was aware of this stuff being posted. Even if she did know, that doesn’t make it any better.
Funny that different people say different things, regardless of sex, huh?
Yeah Redditors tend to prefer women don't they

Edit: thought the /s was unnecessary but evidently I was over-hopeful
You sound like a nice person. Not judgemental at all.
Ass.
Yeah, and unless she thought her knees would bend the opposite way it’s pretty clear that the machine requires an upward push so her legs should be on the bottom. She moved her legs *around* to be on top. She’s a dumb fuck.
That’s also not what that comment said. It said she had it right at first and then adjusted. Said nothing about the right leg vs left leg.
Oh well that’s even worse.
>a dick the size of burmese python

But do you fuck 17 girls a week?
......and you choose to identify as female. You truly are brave. 
Hmm. Well there are some facts sprinkled throughout the interwebs I suppose.
Using this for glute/ham raises are hard as HELL the first few times you use it. You never realize how weak those muscles are until you try using them. First few weeks I used it I needed a spotter to help me back up/make sure I didn’t fall forward too fast and hurt myself.

However, after getting used to it and doing sets of 10+, you feel like an absolute boss knowing just how hard that workout is lol
Not familiar with Roman Chair, but from a quick google it looks like the same thing as hyperextensions. Difference between those and glute ham raise is where you bend: roman chair and hyperextension are a bend at the hips, where a glute ham raise is a bend at the knees. You can use a glute ham raise for either one, but a hyperextension machine really only works for those.

Glute ham raise looks like this: https://images.google.com/imgres?imgurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.t-nation.com%2Fsystem%2Fpublishing%2Farticles%2F10000673%2Foriginal%2FThe-Glute-Ham-Raise-from-A-to-Z.jpg%3F1452284203&imgrefurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.t-nation.com%2Ftraining%2Fthe-glute-ham-raise-from-a-to-z&docid=hGiITrJzleYqsM&tbnid=d8IxksRtKEOrfM%3A&vet=1&w=620&h=349&hl=en-us&source=sh%2Fx%2Fim
Hyperextensions you can focus on your back but with GHR your back muscles are just statically contracting to support your body weight and there's never much strain there (at least for me). When I touch my butt(heh) during the GHR motion the maximal contraction happens during the bottom of the motion however my hamstrings are constantly engaged and contracted. 

In my experience, GHR is hamstring based motion while roman chair extensions engage my back and butt the most. Not sure on the biomechanics of why. 
And somehow you're getting downvoted.
The phrase 'poor X' is often just a sincere expression of sympathy.
No you both
please no..... dear god
AHHHHH
nothing funny
huh huh huh. 

OK SOYBOY
Absolutely not. They insult women for everything or sexualize them regardless of their achievements- even underaged girls. If you think that’s preferable to being called “stupid”, then you need to rethink some things. 
Nah, just no preference for assholes in general. 
Nah I’m a weight throwing asshole. These people come to the gym once and get “embarrassed” by people in better shape then give up totally,then blame it on everyone else.Maybe she asked for help after almost snapping her neck,but I highly doubt it. And really,who wears a leather hat and sunglasses to the gym? Someone who doesn’t sweat much. 
People judging others on Reddit? What has the world come to? Downvote me then I’ll learn. 
Ironic.
Sure. You're perfect and have never made a dumb mistake that made everyone around you laugh at your idiocy.
😂 it’s from east bound and down 
I know, I wasn’t asking is she literally poor, I was asking why should one feel sorry for her off the bat here? I’d hope if I did this I could laugh at myself, why couldn’t she? 
Quit being a nonce 
I was being sarcastic.
>Nah I’m a weight throwing asshole

At least you have your honesty
Hwaw you somehow managed to produce a story from that short gif. Impressive, if incredibly judgmental.
Oh for fuck’s sake get a grip.
what flavour is your soylent?
Mmmmhm. Sure you were. Go ahead and edit in your /s and pretend you didn’t agree with him til he got downvoted into hell. 
Vanilla coffee
I agree with you. Reddit obviously has a misogyny problem - so obviously that I thought I didn’t need to explicitly spell out the irony in my post. Thanks for being a complete dimwit though. 
try Cocoa
Yes, it so obviously does- so why would anyone assume that your comment was that of some special sort of “woke” redditor? Seriously, just get over yourself. 
