I made a modular, walkable, puttable hot tub cover

Hopefully it lasts, so you don't get a hole in one.
Wood develops mold in humid and wet environments. Do you paint Lacquer onto the wood benches before wrapping them? 
Golfing aside, I think the modularity of the build is a really good idea. Especially converting the cover into benches is nice. 
Hate to be the one to say this but how long until your dog and neighbors cats start using it as a toilet 
I just hope there's a hole that opens directly to the hot tub so that when you putt a ball in you get a nice, "Galunk!"
This is a nice idea, i like it.

Any ideas for an above ground hot tub outside near dinner table?
Cool! Did you consider putting wheels on it so instead of lifting those 60# sections you could just push it to the side?
I love this. My wife keeps wanting to get a hot tub for our lower patio (older, split level house), and I don't want to lose the entire patio to it because it's quite small. Thanks for this! bookmarked for later!
Doubles as a ball washer
You should just put locking castor wheels on them so you can roll them off/lock them in place. 
Modular and multi-purpose stuff really floats my boat. Turning into seating when you're entertaining is excellent. Good stuff!
This is awesome. I have a spa on a concrete slab that I’ve wanted to put a deck around for ages. 

I’ve contemplated different way to hide it to maximise the deck space - like putting in a lift and rollaway deck cover (with fancy rollers to make sure lifting half a deck wasn’t a chore). Maybe I could get away with this. Or instead of a putting green, it could be a giant checkers board. 

Thanks for the inspiration!
if you miss your putt, your golf ball is going off the deck
Fucking brilliant 
Did you fill it with insulation?
That's a good way to make the several square meters usable while not in the tub. Good show
I was going to say you should just put it on casters and roll it off when you want to use it, then the sectional idea looked much better.
I'm green with envy.
Should have drilled out some golf holes that double as cup holders
Neat! I’ve been thinking of doing a similar thing. Maybe mount rope handles on the end of each one?
Put 6 pockets around it and play golf-pool or golf-snooker. 
You might think about hinged legs that fold up.   Maybe released with a cotterpin type setup from the outside and then the another pin hole to lock them open.    Then you could have four grassy benches, or an little elevated table of sorts.
I think it’s cool!
I like everything about it apart from the fake grass, but that's just personal taste... Nice job!!
Stoked for Minecraft AR!!
OP just volunteered to be the assistant couch for the local girls high school golf team, and is offering free 1 on 1 private putting lessons at his house.
How do you make it strong enough to support your weight and light enough to move when you need to?
This is a clever solution, thanks for sharing! 
That's pretty dope. nice work.
I love how versatile that is! You should put little wheels on the sections so you don’t actually have to lift it up. Not sure if that makes it easier or more difficult to sit on though....
I love the improvised casual Stimpmeter chart. What would you say it runs, about a 4? :D
Very nice! What was total cost of the project?
Love it, thank you for posting.you inspired me to do something similar 
OP, what did you use to prevent rot from the steam/water on the underside of the cover(s)?
If you ever want to rebuild it to last, sheet PVC would be perfect. Nice job though!
Sketch doesn't mean what you think it does. 
Looks great, what if you made two actual holes (with a bottom, plastic cup of come sort) one in each side a little off centered. Then you could practice put long ways and when you are using them as benches: cup holders. 
It's modular...MODULAR!
But seriously it's an amazing idea and we'll executed. Enjoy OP.
boi this is sick
Fake grass is so ugly. Timber all the way. 
Brilliant
Hopefully she day I'll be creative like this. Bravo dude!
[removed]
Ass soup.
Looks awesome! Pressure treated lumber though.... That stuff isn't the best for anything other than being walked on. I mean its a lot less toxic nowadays (they used to make pressure treated lumber with an Arsenic compound (CCA) as the active ingredient) nowadays they use copper containing alternatives which are much less toxic but can still cause skin reactions when exposed. 

I would have gone with spar varnish on pine or other wood, as your primary concern here is moisture and corrosion and a thick coat of spar varnish should be able to resist that. 
[Deleted picture](https://i.imgur.com/nkynyFF.jpg)
It’s cool, but would have went with stained wood
You forgot insulation. 

Did you use pressure treated lumber?  If not, it'll rot. And likely get mold too. 
I'll take "Putent Puttables" for 400
Poggers
Your eagle eyes spotted that pun!
Look at all those upvotes! I guess the early birdie gets the worm 
Do you play Plants versus Zombie by any chance?
go back to facebook mom

oh no dont downvote me MOMMMM

god damnit MOM dont downvote me more to be defiant of my request to not downvote me hahahahhaaha
Yeah, put a few coats of Thompson's Water Seal.  I think this may not have the longest life anyway, covering a steamy chlorine mix. Even the store bought vinyl ones look bad after a few years.
I'm his neighbor and I pissed on it last night 
3 days
That'd have to be a pretty dumb dog or the owner encouraging it. It's in a place they typically don't potty (second story deck) and it doesn't smell or feel like real grass.

Cats prefer to go where they can kick stuff to cover their business so your lovingly planted flower bed is much more ideal than a hard turf surface.
My dog is pretty smart though.  :)

https://www.youtube.com/RipleysPuzzles/videos
Practice your chipping from the tub to the table.
My musically talented friends have accused me of intentionally building a stage for them. :)  Maybe that would add to your setup?
Modular cover that doubles as a ping pong table? 
I tried wheels on some of the heavy planters and while they work, they gouge the deck wood.  

It wasn't so bad picking up one side and pivoting them.  I'll add some canvas straps to the ends to make it easier to pick them up with 2 people.
Hey, glad it may have some use outside my world!
That is a good idea. This looks cool but when I run out to my hot tub naked in the middle of winter I get annoyed that it takes me 4 seconds to flip my current cover open. It would get old in a hurry to have to spend a couple minutes shifting these around. 
If you're building a deck around it, you have a ton of flexibility. Depends on whether the deck height fits this, but I'd be tempted to build the deck so the cover would be flush with the top, with a ledge around the tub so it's not a huge step down. You could even install cup holders around it. The cover could be two pieces, and you could have some sort of chain or other attachment point that holds the cover up and out of the way.

Basically a stealth hot tub that's super easy to open up, but otherwise you have the full deck level. 
Love the checkerboard idea!  Good luck.
Just make sure you can easily access the panel where the pumps and computer is located.
I bought 1" styro sheets but haven't decided to use them yet.  It's warm where I live and I mostly use it at pool temp.  I don't think I'd leave it heat it when covered.  Need to see how that goes.
That did occur to me at one point.  I guess I could still do it.  

This guy used marine cup holders for his sick gaming table:  https://makezine.com/2015/12/08/how-to-build-a-high-end-gaming-table-for-as-little-as-150/
Thanks.  And definitely on the handles!
Thanks!  Yeah, I was going to cut and fit the grass as one piece over the sections, and use it only when they were all in position.

Then I thought what am I going to do with all this wood when the tub is being used?  So I start looking for outdoor rated carpet or padding to make them into benches.  But I already had spent almost $100 on the astroturf and it's actually not scratchy at to touch or sit on.  So I pivoted to cut and fix them to the individual sections.  

A little goofy but made for weather and I already had them.   :)
Assistant "couch"?   Heheh.  Freudian slip?
Yeah, chlo151's response was the method I used.  I thought it would be something that folded in half and wheeled away.  But it got way too heavy and I had no where to put when not in use, so that started the separate pieces that could double as seating.
With modular wood panels.
It's pretty bad.  Funny that putting over the seams didn't really affect it though.  

Agree with the other posters that it's not very practical since long putts go off the edge.  :)
Oops.  I should have included that.  These are estimates:
Wood:  200
Screws: 30
Astroturf: 90
Total: 310
I think think the execution is ok, minus the astroturf. It's 'Do-it-yourself', not 'Done by experts'. Should've just stained the wood, or used a matching colored cover if he still wanted something soft.
These puns are up to par.
Cause I'm Mr. Brightside!
Dang it, grandpa. 
That's tends to be more sun damage to the vinyl than moisture damage. But they both play a part.
Seems good enough. It’s not like it’s horribly expensive to replace. I like that it does triple duty (bench/green).
Natural redwood is also moisture and pest resistant. 
This doggo is so cute
Try skateboard wheel casters
Umm.. go out ahead of time to open it THEN run out naked. That’s how normal people do it!
Be aware that the lifespan of the tub is under 10 years while the lifespan of a well built deck can be over 50. Properly taken care of, a tub can last longer than that, but they become a PITA past a decade- constant maintenance and dealing with parts that are no longer in production, etc. I used to work on spas and I work construction now.
Should be titled "tacky af drunk idea had in hot tub was actually followed through"
We've got it down to a tee
Something something birdie bath
Good point.
Thanks!  She's famous too.  :)

https://www.youtube.com/RipleysPuzzles/videos
That seems like a lot of work
This guy hot tubs
Yep, so you design something with replacing/servicing the tub in mind. If you have a ledge around it you can adjust the dimensions to a new tub. And if you give up on it, you have a level deck. 
That's about the age of mine, and it sat unused for 3 years too. Heating element had to be replaced when I moved in, the ozonator was tripping the gfci so I had to remove it, the pillows have all started separating, I've got one jet that somehow broke inside the insulation so I've currently got it sealed off, the slab started sinking so I had to drain and level the hot tub with 2x4's and the gfci started tripping all the time last year. It's really not too bad, I probably have $400 in repairs and filters that I need to get it running right again, but I repair machines with much more complex plumbing at work so i'm able to do all of this myself. The average person would be out of pocket quite a bit if they had to call out a repair man.
Yep.  I got mine for free from a friend.  But free has turned into thousands so far in maintenance with more scheduled.  We are seriously considering scrapping it for a new one.  But that's a pricy bullet to bite.
I think you should make one
Wow, fore puns in a row!
Is she a Chihuahua Dachshund? She is adorable! Love the videos.
Service access is crucial. If we didn't have that, we'd have to jack the whole tub up inch by inch and put it on cinder blocks. That takes a long time which means it costs $$$ to service.
lol I make better looking home improvements by accident
Can I join the pun club? 
It’s a shame that it looks like a trap.
Thanks!  She's Dachshund / Pug / Chihuahua.
Share one with us
You'll have to drive them home harder than that, I wood have blown right past your pun if I didn't stop to think about it.
Let me just wedge myself in here..
That pun was so bad I think you might be a handicap. 
There was definitely alcohol involved there....
These are getting pretty rough. 
Golf. 
I know, it’s a bit rough.
Sports!
I think there's a fairway to keep these rolling.
Neat! I’m 
These have gone a little off course. How about a mulligan? 
The puns will putter out soon, I'm sure.
I’m just gonna wedge one more pun in.
