Who doesn't love it?

I dont know why but I'm reading palpatine like hes a deepvoiced grandmother who smoked too much.
An OT meme combined with a prequel meme? Is that...legal?
Later after killing the Emperor, Vader told Luke this:  
**Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Sidious the Senate?**
I hear it's an ironic tale.
r/equelmemes
Try spinning him. It's a good trick
Have you ever heard the Legend of Luke Skywalker the Rebel?  It's not a story the Resistance would tell you.
  
Luke Skywalker was a moisture farmer from Tatooine. So innocent and hopeful that he could bullseye womp rats in his T-16 back home... he had such a knowledge of the force that he could make himself, invincible... the Jedi Order is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be, dogmatic. He became so powerful... the only thing he was ever afraid of was losing his power which eventually of course he did. Unfortunately, he tried to kill his apprentice in his sleep and died while making himself invincible. Ironic. He could save his ghost from dying, but not himself.
Don’t care if it’s a repost, I’ve never seen it and it’s hilarious. 
r/OTmemes

Tho am still going to upvote this cause it made me chuckle and I love this scene so much! 
General Reposti! 
General reposti!
Stop right there reposting scum 🖐🏻⛔️
General Reposti! You stole this from OT memes! Delete your account!
It's just OT shots. Are we blind!?
r/equelmemes

General reposti!
Not an OC
There should be a "not enough prequel" tag.
"Do it."
Wow. Now this is canon.
OT memers should have an uprising against the new trilogy memers 
General Reposti
I read in an interview of the guy that played Palpatine he had to improvise a few things.  Not all the special effects were ready before this scene.  The chair he sits in that turns was supposed to have a motor to turn, but they couldn't get it installed in time.  So when he turns the chair, his robes are actually covering the fact he is using his feet to carefully shuffle the chair.

"Welcome, young Skywalker."
*scoot scoot scoot*
OT scenes ! but my Lord ... is that Legal ?
“Dewit.”
GENERAL REPOSTI (stolen from r/OTmemes)
You had 571 upvotes after I gave mine. May you get many more.
That’s a good trick!
Grandpap palpatine
What is the Tragedy of Darth Plagueis the wise?
I dead, so funny.
I cant watch the prequels unless they’re fanedits lol. Tried watching the original cuts of Phantom Menace and AOTC. Jar Jar and little Annie spoil that part of the movie and Older Anakin is so creepy in the second.
This would go great in a lego star wars episode.
We've made it friends. We're on the front page.
Now THIS is s prequel meme!
Just when you think a meme has been beyond beaten to death, this gem comes along. 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
I mean, it *is* a Sith legend...
I'll try telling him the tragedy of Darth Plagueis that's a good trick!
Seriously though, why is Darth plagueis a meme ? Like what is the story ?

Edit : spelling 
r/equelmemes
Grandpa Palpy.
Damn I have to increase my screen brightness to see vader
An OT meme, really? A man of your talents?
What isn’t the tragedy of Darth Plagueis, it is not a story they tell us in the temple.
r/equelmemes
Crossover r/OTmemes ?
General reposti! DEPLOY THE DOWNVOTES TROOPS
Hahahahaha
This is fantastic. Love this shit.
r/equelmemez
Is this really a prequel meme?
OT footage? Uhh.. that doesn’t compute. 
Repost 
This is not funny. 

Stupid Disney Marketing shitting on an actually good film.
"Your generation have no respect"
In the italian dub that’s pretty much what his voice sounds like
“You hungry?”

“No grandma I’m fine”

“I’ll go fix you a plate”

“No grandma I just ate, I don’t need a plate”

“Oh ok, just a small plate then. A little of everything”

“Sigh...ok grandma”
Too much Robot Chicken?
Or like Marge Simpson's  sister.
I was hearing Harvey Fierstein, myself...
My mind went to:

https://youtube.com/watch?v=uxPjZL8MTSI
In the italian dub that’s pretty much what his voice sounds like
It sounds like Laura Bozzo to me
Moi DAWduh wud LAWV yooo
Mac's mom? 
I simply read it in the robot chicken voice. 
"I could tell you a story about Sir Duncan, The Tall; those were always your favorites."
Makes me think of something Like Granny Goodness from Justice League. https://youtu.be/N2qnYkDAyQI
They're selling chocolates!
I would love a movie where Ian McDermott does the Tyler Perry crossdressing thing and is both the manipulative grandma and beaten down grandpa.
so like ET?
OP will make it legal 
It is on the r/equelmemes system
From my point of view everything before the sequels is a prequel!
yes, because it’s a prequel meme
take a seat
Eventually were just going to loop back around to using /r/starwarsmemes.
It's not a story the rebellion would tell you..
Darth Sidious was a dark lord of the sith. So cunning and so manipulative that he could influence the senate to listen to him... he had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even tell lies to manipulate jedi... the dark side of the force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. He became so powerful... the only thing he was ever afraid of was losing his power which eventually of course he did. Unfortunately. He started torturing his apprentice’s son. Then his apprentice threw him down a reactor shaft. Ironic. He could manipulate Jedi, But not forever.
I also hear that it is not a story the jedi would tell us
How could you not? People won't shut up about the irony. 
What is this requelmemes you speak of?
Proof: https://www.reddit.com/r/OTMemes/comments/8dtxdk/try_telling_him_a_story/?utm_source=reddit-android
General Crossposti
You have violated the law!
What do you mean? All three characters appear in the prequels.
Bioshock?
*GENERAL CROSSPOSTI
Its not a story the jedi would tell you..,
Icky, icky goo!
Darth Plagueis was a dark lord of the sith, so powerful and so wise, he could actually use the force to influence the midichlorians to create... life. He had such a knowledge of the dark side, he could even keep the ones he cares about....from dying. 
Go for Papa-Palpatine!
Dark.
r/equelmemes *
Yes. 
It’s only a repost if it’s been posted in this sub.
"Darth Vader said 'Beat it bozo'"
So uncivilized.
I always love grammatical mistakes in quotes
You posted thi
General double posti!
s comment twice
[When your friends claim they love Star Wars](http://drivenature.info/entertainment/when-your-friends-claim-they-love-star-wars/)
It's treason, then.
Eel-qual memes?
Fuck r/equelmemes, they allied with the blasphemous catapults
Then you are lost!
It's outrageous! It's unfair!
My loyalty is to the republic, t o democracy!
It's an Imperial legend.
Remove my mask so I can tell you with my own voice.  *dies*
>He could manipulate Jedi, but not a Sith

FTFY
It's Ironic.  
He could save his son from dying, but not himself.
*Ironic(?).*
Requel as in *REEEEEEEE*
Sad how the creator comes away with far less upvotes.
We will deal with this Reposti slime! Deploy the downvotes!
This scum got gold off a repost. 
He wasn’t the original poster and didn’t use the crosspost feature though so general Reposti seems more fitting
Hi There!
I'm stupid, since clearly I'm not getting it
Not without a crosspost link.
/r/unexpectedmulaney
Give us the scoop Vader, what did she say to Tiger?
General Misquoti!
This is getting out of hand: now there are two of them!
Fuck whoever wrote that. The prequels aren’t so bad they’re good, they’re actually good. They have have terrible acting and some tone deaf moments but they also have legitimately interesting, original story that makes more sense in regard to the OT than the new ones do, they expand upon the most impressive fictional universe every created in recent generations, and they were well ahead of their time, much like the originals. I also can appreciate the directorial ‘‘poetry’ Lucas spent a ton of time incorporating into the movies and am floored when more astute viewers point them out and I go back and realize, ‘holy fuck George Lucas definitely did that on purpose’
Spam bot
I mean, if you hate/ignore like half of SW movies and lore (which are prequels), then how can you claim, that you absolutely love everything about star wars? How much of a "fan" even are you?
requel* memes
Darth Sidious was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so senate he could use the Force to influence senators to create... Empire.
*roblox oof*
He could tell others to shut up, but not himself.
>Y  
  
You dropped this
Yep.
Some of us are on mobile. Additionally, you don't need to use the feature to crosspost; people have been crossposting for over a decade. 
Why is everyone on the internet he?
[I love the Senate](http://drivenature.info/entertainment/i-love-the-senate/)
SHE TOLD HIM TO BEAT IT BOZO
*Genreel Misquoti!
It's not even the acting so much as it is the writing. It's astonishing how Ewan McGregor acted so well with such shit lines.
> The prequels aren’t so bad they’re good, they’re actually good.

The prequels fail on almost every fundamental level needed for a film to be unironically good. The acting is awful, the writing is awful, the dialogue is stilted and wooden, the pacing is a fucking disgrace in episodes I and II. Characters don't feel, act or talk like real people. The comedy, when intentional, always falls flat. The cinematography and over reliance on CGI makes the entire world feel like a fucking pixar cartoon. To quote Mark Kermode, nothing holds weight or feels real. 

If the prequels weren't so ironically hilarious it'd be tossed on the trashheap of history as a boring and poorly made film with some good CGI. 

> I also can appreciate the directorial ‘‘poetry’ Lucas spent a ton of time incorporating 

It's amazing how you take something that is historically a point of ridicule for George Lucas and turn it into something that's praiseworthy. 
I agree with you. I can get so captivated in the world the prequels built because it's so interesting. I grew up with them so I have a bias but go ahead and kill me, but I think the whole politics in the Phantom Menace actually breathed some life into the Universe rather than "big scary Empire who didn't really look like an empire or act like one" came into power. Not to mention they did what the Sequels keep failing at and actually make it feel like a Universe. 

I hate when they're called bad. They're not bad, a bad movie is another poorly executed Terminator that doesn't make any sense.  
Although I don’t think they are all that great I also think they get more hate than they deserve. However the context they create for the OT is incredible.
I can’t believe you’re serious. Nostalgia has blinded you. These films are, objectively, utter shite. That’s what makes these memes so hilarious. 
Revenge of the Sith was actually a good movie. Though I can't say the same about the 2nd movie.

Good story riddled with bits of poor dialogue, acting, and directing.
I would say that the original Mass Effect trilogy is the best universe ever written.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/moviescirclejerk] [In which the Prequels are a masterpiece](https://www.reddit.com/r/moviescirclejerk/comments/8dwv4g/in_which_the_prequels_are_a_masterpiece/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
I recently watched RotS because I'd actually never seen it, and this sub reminded me of it's existence.

I thought it was actually legitimately pretty good. I saw it shortly before TLJ, and I thought RotS was a lot more interesting and enjoyable.

Some of those lines were clunkers, though. Like bless her heart, I just couldn't buy a single line said by Natalie Portman as Padme. I think it's part bad writing and part poor direction. 

But idk, it almost seems a little unfair to lump RotS in with TPM and AotC. It's a lot better than the other two prequels, but I guess is was "too little too late" the salvage the reputation of the Prequels as a whole.

Well said.
Nah.
He could even... almost reach Ezra Bridger in the world between worlds to gain access to keeping the ones he cared about from dying?
So powerful and so _democratic_
You can crosspost on mobile though I’ve been doing this for months just press the share button on iOS . This is technically a repost though if he used the crosspost feature then it would be general Crossposti. Almost 90% of my memes are made on mobile and some of them have made it to the frontpage don’t underestimate the power of the phones
Cross posting is a skill some consider to be unnatural. 
This is Reddit.. so yeah it is mostly a male demographic so going by statistics alone, he is a more likely accurate term.
*SAND* 

I’m ded 
SPAM SITE! DON'T CLICK! 
/u/FlowersRogue is the spammer
Hello there!
I believe you mean the best lines in the history of cinema.
Plus the editing room directing. Doesn't matter how well you perform if it's all hacked to death in post.
His lines weren't shit and his acting was very good. But hayden christensen's acting was really poor.
I love how so much of r/prequelmemes has brainwashed themselves into thinking that the prequels were masterworks. You can like a bad movie without justifying it
I think the truth is somewhere in the middle here. There's a solid core of a cool universe in there somewhere if you can look past all the shit. The best thing about the prequels was as a backdrop for Clone Wars / *The* Clone Wars, both of which were great. Also, I wonder how Rebels is, since I never got around to watching that one.

This is the correct answer. If into the Episode I-III DVD's you go, only pain will you find.
I think it's a taste thing really. I kinda like the poetry too. I think the line seemed silly and pretentious in the behind the scenes bit, but I do appreciate the outcome of it.
> I agree with you. I can get so captivated in the world the prequels built because it's so interesting.

I love the clone wars! the big universe in the CGI cartoons, books and games...
> I hate when they're called bad.

And the sequels are called good by most, because:

'splosions > good story.
Really? Because I think the "context" they create is pretty awful. Leia shared some distant memories of her mother with Luke in a beautiful and heart wrenching scene? Just kidding, their mother actually died of sadness and didn't know either one of them. 
I align with this comment the most. 

Anyway, I think it’s okay to like something that people that went to college for a film BA don’t. Episode III was awesome and Interstellar sucked. Everyone else can get over it.
Luke: Is it possible to learn this power?
Huh. Well, TIL. Thanks! 
It’s not cross posting dude. 
Mostly a white demographic too but you don't assume everyone is white
R.I.P. /u/albinolan, July 15th, 2017-April 21st, 2018

General Kenobi!
Yep.
As opposed to?
Well Hayden christensen’s lines WERE shit so it’s hard to get good acting out of that. He’s actually a pretty decent actor.
I loved the YouTube prequel reviews. I forgot the guys name but his roast/breakdown of them is hilarious 
 That the issue with most parody subs.. eventually you get too many true believers... 
George Lucas is an ideas man. He has some cool ideas for the prequels and worldbuilding as a whole, but that's really as far as it goes.

As soon as he takes those interesting ideas and tries to convey them through narrative, writing and dialogue, he always falls flat. Good worldbuilding needs good writing to back it up. Yet almost every piece of info is told to the audience as if the characters are reading off a wikipedia page.





don't forget that the new 3 are also bullet proof because it 'subverted expectations'
You seem to imply, that Interstellar was some artsy independent movie only some hipsters would like, when in fact it was as much a blockbuster as it gets. Interstellar was visually stunning, had a fantastic score and great actors. It sucked only in that it was riddled with plot holes and the whole plot ultimately made no sense, which was disappointing for a movie that was advertised as super scientifically accurate.
Not from a republic
What’s the difference? Is it just a repost then?
....... what is your point? I'm simply stating, going by statistics it's easier to assume someone is male. If not, it can easily be corrected. Race has nothing to do with it, because I have no reason to refer to someone by race, as that simply isn't how the English language works.
Another happy landing
They're referring to Lucas splicing several takes together into one in post production, which results in many edits that some would consider to be unnatural. Such as Anakin's [face morphing](https://youtu.be/HLfGh2b_me0?t=205) after the Senate recalls Darth Plagueis (there is another less noticeable one earlier on in the scene). Lucas preferred McDiarmid's performance in one take and Christensen's in another, so he merged them together.

He did this all through the prequels, apparently enjoying the unlimited power digital editing had given him. Unfortunately, he focussed so much on merging takes, that he failed to merge scenes together well. Ironic. He could edit individual scenes, but couldn't edit scenes into a movie.
Go back and re-shoot scenes, like any other director would do. 
Are you referring to Mr. Plinkett, done by Red Letter Media?
I remember when this sub started out and people had no trouble admitting the prequels were so bad they were good. For heaven's sake that's why this sub was originally created. 

Now we have insufferable morons saying "fuck anyone who says that", trying to convince us the prequels are legit good films, and getting hundreds of upvotes in the process. 


By redoing number 4. To be fair, it surprised me.
It broke new ground. 
No I didn’t mean to imply that at all. My main point was that the passive aggressive phrase “you’re entitled to your opinion” is actually pretty accurate. Interstellar was a blockbuster and I hated it which I can do because I’m entitled to my opinion. Like what you want. Stop caring about what others think about you especially if those others form their opinions about you based on the films you like or dislike. Don’t be sheep.

And you are spot on, as far as the plot holes go. I simply can’t get over gaping plot holes and that’s why I hate the movie.


Ironic.
I was just exclaiming something I notice, not attacking you personally.
The dark side of the editing room is a pathway to many edits some consider to be unnatural.
[What's wrong with your faaaaace?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=62UzLgdb1GQ)
but was it a welcome surprise?
*IT TOOK 16 YEARS TO REHASH*
This is getting out of hand. Now there are two of them!
This is where the fun begins 
