This sink and soap

that's like r/fuckyoudesign
this is not crappy design, this is entertainment. ill be sitting there for about 2 hours putting the soap back on to watch it fall again
Sinks are designed this way so that water flows back into the sink if it has splashed up there.
Get a soap holder, then.
r/oddlysatisfying
Just needs a cartoon slide-whistle sound effect.
“I DONT WANT YOUR FUCKING SOAP”
They forgot to remove the invisible cats that push everything off
My entire shower/bath area is like this. 

And the shower head is designed in a way that we can’t attach a shower caddy or similar. 

After a year of hearing our shampoos crash in the middle of night, we now have a cart just outside of the shower to hold everything. 

Maddening. 
Using bar soap to wash your hands outside of a hotel is barbaric.  
Who the fuck uses bar soap at a sink? 
You just need banana shaped soap
i like your username
Warching that was painful. Shit annoys me so much
You should put that on a soap holder, so that the soap and soap holder can also fall into the sink.
Maybe it wasn't installed level.
As an avid soap bar user, this infuriates me!!
You know what they say, "DON'T DROP THE SOAP".
Could ya say it sinks
This is the opposite of crappy design. It's good design, in that it drains the water off the sink. Try getting a soapholder, or perhaps a liquid soap dispenser. 
my sink has the same problem. had to switch to pump soap for this exact reason. 
Let that sink in.
Who’s happens with a bottle cap on my phone screen. But it takes a few minutes to slowly slide all the way off. 
Probably wasn't installed correctly 

What kind of a savage sets their soap directly on the porcelain?
I really just waisted 25 seconds of my life watching...
Get a soap dish you fucking animal.
Soap: I'm in love with drain! Stop separating us!
"I want to be free!"
Anyone else think that hand is disgusting?
wait that actually exists?!
/r/AssholeDesign is much more active.
r/ofcoursethatsathing
It seems like you have not yet played Fortnite
Yeah, it's actually great design so water doesn't pool on the edges. The bad idea here is using bar soap or not having a soap dish.
So what they should do is have a slight lip to stop the soap, and a small gap for the water the flow out of. I aint no sink designer but why didn't they think of this?
They don't need such a steep edge that the soap falls off, though. 
Or a liquid soap dispenser.
Judging by the little soap disc I'd say this is a hotel, so unless you thought to bring one with you from home the only solution would be to throw away the soap after using it and and then set fire to the place.
I have one. After a short time the soap gets soft and wet and splits into smaller pieces, then the whole thing slips down. **AAAARRGH!!!**
More like r/mildlyinfuriating 
Bar soap is much more environmental than liquid soap. 
Bar soap is fucking cheap and works just as well as liquid soap unless you're washing dishes.
...but why not?
It’s probably designed that way for drainage purposes.
My first thought as well.
It slides from both sides, but it could be tilted downward towards the user
[What does that sink want this time?](https://i.imgur.com/MDhbuT6.jpg)
Anyone else think this comment is stupid?
Your post history though...

I guess you were missed in the russian troll removal.
The one post there is a decent one. So I guess so.
One post doesn’t make it a thing
He needs to take baby steps away from fidget spinners.
Just wanted to say same thing but I wont double the comment. 
Get a soap holder with a grating.
Now I'm conflicted
[citation needed]
Environmental?

(I know what you mean, just messing with you)
Was that your disgusting hand?
I mean, doesn’t it?
Just wanted to say same thing but I wont triple the comment
I am a disgusting hand and I feel offended. 
