Unlike Ginger Baker and John Bonham, Keith Moon hated drum solos and refused to play them in concert. At a 1974 show, Townshend and Entwistle decided to spontaneously stop playing during "Wasp Man" to listen to Moon's drum solo. He continued briefly before stopping, shouting "Drum solos are boring!"

To be fair every time Keith Moon played he played like he was soloing.
Best drum solo I ever saw was some unknown psychedelic rock band in a small club. At the end of a chorus, the singer walked up to the bar and ordered 3 beers whilst the guitarist played a solo. He then joined the singer whilst the bassist soloed who in turn joined them at the bar. The drummer played an epic solo for 10 mins, the rest of the band finished their drinks and one by one joined back in. 
As a percussionist myself I kind of agree with him. Drum solos typically are boring. But a nice drum fill even a longer one sounds awesome!
>This guy goes on vacation to a tropical island. As soon as he gets off the plane, he hears drums. He thinks "Wow, this is cool." He goes to the beach, he hears the drums, he eats lunch, he hears drums, he goes to a luau, he hears drums. He tries to go to sleep, yet he hears drums. This goes on for several nights, and gets to the point where the guy can't sleep at night because of the drums. Finally, he goes down to the front desk. When he gets there, he asks the manager, "Hey! What's with these drums. Don't they ever stop? I can't get any sleep." The manager says, "No! Drums must never stop. It's very bad if drums stop." "Why?" "When drums stop... bass solo begins."
Many rhythm musicians think playing solos is unnecessary and self-indulgent. They play to lock in with the rest of the band so when noone else is playing they aren't getting what they want out of the performance
Keith's playing was so distinctive throughout his time in The Who that he never needed a drum solo to really express himself.

Also, Drum solos can be amazing. Just listen to Led Zep's performance at the Royal Albert Hall in 1970.

Bonham's Moby Dick solo is brilliant.

Edit: I'd like to take this opportunity to recommend the bootleg Listen To This Eddie. Bonham's playing on that is God. What the audience heard that night is mind-blowing. John Paul Jones three necked guitar arrangement was also a highlight. Also, pretty much every member has their own solo: JPJ has No Quarter's extension, Page has his theremin solo, Bonham obviously has the Moby Dick set piece and I chose to think Plant's "solo" is the acoustic set. It's a good job Peter Grant never found that guy's recorder and smashed it otherwise us mortals would never know what a gem it is!
I just love that Keith Moon is dominating my front page today.

I don't know how it happened, but I love it.
Ian Paice on Made In Japan played my favourite drum solo. I don't think drum solos are boring, not all drummers have got the style for banging out percussive music.
[Fun moment:](https://youtu.be/7wluNKSXdxY) Keith Moon jumping on stage to introduce Bonham's solo in LA, 1977. You can hear him at the 2 minute mark and he also joins in throughout I believe, especially on the timpani section.  

Edit: Hearing Moon yell "Let's show those dead motherfuckers what they're missing!" is PRICELESS. 
Moon was the best drummer of that era. I didn’t realize it til recently but his fills, which he was doing CONSTANTLY, were miraculous in that they were always great, never overwhelming. And still he doesn’t want to do solos? Fuck. He was the greatest. 
I’m a 43 year old drummer who’s been playing for 30 years. I enjoy listening to drum solos but hate playing them. Band I used to play with made me play a solo to lead into one of our songs. 
Obligatory [Neil Peart](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neil_Peart#Solos) shoutout:

> Peart's instructional DVD Anatomy of a Drum Solo is an in-depth examination of how he constructs a solo that is musical rather than indulgent, using his solo from the 2004 R30 30th anniversary tour as an example.


He's not wrong... 
I think Frankenstein is one of the only songs I like that has a good drum solo
Neil Peart would like a word.
One name: Mickey Hart
Keith didn't care about the drum solos, he just wanted to toss cherry bombs down toilets, trash hotel rooms beyond repair, and be an overall lunatic.
It totally depends on the drummer. In rock I agree with Moon for the most part. It really comes down to not being gimmicky and having the elements of any good solo from any instrument. Drum solos tend to be boring for some people because you can expect what will happen. They start slow or by keeping the beat going, then get faster or louder or more complicated until busting their nut so to speak and then it’s done. No sense of melody or real development and it can be kind of a cheap way to evoke a reaction. A good drummer can make that formula work but it is hard. In jazz you can hear more strategies since drummers have to play over the form of a song like any other instrument so the song doesn’t pause like it does during a rock solo and there is usually more to listen to with less formulas. However the drummer I’m playing with now doesn’t like drum solos and he’s a great drummer. He is in his 60s and said that when he was younger he was all about the drum technical stuff and solos but now feels like it breaks up the music and describes it like a circus. So on a few different levels I can understand why Moon didn’t like solos and it kind of sucks that they stopped playing to make him take one of he didn’t want to. 
Drum solos are usually boring IRL, but I enjoyed the shit out of the film Whiplash, drum solos and all.
Drum solos are boring but drums sound cool
neither were anywhere near baker's league 
ITT: links to boring drum solo videos
Keith Moon was a smart man.
I'd sometimes rather the singer just said "I'm getting old and need 5 minutes, fuck off to the bar for a bit" rather than sit through another drum solo just there to pad a rest break. I saw Sabbath a few times on the last tour and that one was tedious. Drum solos can be incredible (Rush) or complete atmosphere killers, it feels like the latter a lot recently. 
what would be the point? he played throughout the songs what he would have played during a solo anyway. 
I'm reading every Keith Moon- The Who anecdote in Del Preston's voice
I've been drumming for most of my life and always thought that drum solos were narcissistic, and egotistical. Drumming supports the music. Play for the music and not at it.
   
Back to back Keith Moon posts on the front page? Hell yeah, keep it up!
Honestly he was sloppy and really not that good in comparison to his peers.
Drum solos can be boring.

Drum duets can be better.

But nothing beats the [drum battle of the century](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJh9W3Gcpmo).

It's true that Keith Moon was always soloing because he literally couldn't even keep time. Entwistle was the backbone of that band. 
Ringo Starr thought the same and the only way the other Beatles managed to get him to take a solo on 'The End' for Abbey Road was to play over it and then they took their guitars out later.
Here’s a clip from [Beware of Mr. Baker](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=4s07xYWu3SU). The person talking in the beginning (Eric Clapton) means Moon among others when he mentions “those players.” Baker is a truly horrible person, but based on the film was the first to do a drum solo, and is the best at it. [Here’s a potato quality clip](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=t_Cf-s72hig) from the movie with a clip that precedes the other one. Watch the movie, admire his skills, but be prepared to hate Ginger as a really awful person.
Most drum solos are boring. Danny Carey, Neil Pert, and Mike Portnoy are my exceptions. 
He's right.
I find all solos a bit boring. Guitar solos always feel like they're just there to show off how good a guitarist is. They don't sound particuarly good.
Nate Smith might have something to say about that...

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y-Qx8u-VYuA

edit: Dr. Steve Gadd wants a word as well: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3EOTl-DLkuA
As much as I love and appreciate Moony, he probably felt this way purely because he couldn't do drum solos to begin with. 
Okay. 
[There's the Keith Moon drum solo with the goldfish in his drumset](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2LRg00ew9U) the solo isn't as impressive as his usual drumming, but I've always loved Keith Moon.
This is a great story. I enjoy jazz solos. I find rock solos are hit and miss. 
Well he's not wrong.
I am a drummer who also hates drum solos.
First thought was Dark Star/Grateful Dead shows. 
Can always tell when its a drum solo or theyre playing Space because the lot fills up again, briefly. 

Perfect time to regroup with your friends, check your head, or do anything but listen to a fifteen minute drum-sterbation. 
I didn't really like drum solos as a child but I do as an adult. I'm not sure if the average drum solo from a rock band would be good, i usually only hear them in jazz music or something
Cool 
Keith is 100% correct
I think solos are best when they are brief. Short and to the point. 
Drum solos and musicals have one thing in common. Both are unfashional now days because they are fucking terrible.
I love the drums honestly, always admire them to being the backbone that never gets recognition. So I honestly feel like the guys a bit of a pretentious person? I’m sorry, this is obviously a professional while I’m a fanboy. He probably did things differently and worked with difference but when I hear a solo in a jazz session holy fuck does it make the teacher from Whiplash actually a good educator (but shitty person honestly).
Allman Brothers at Fillmore East.
I feel the same way.
I generally find [drum duets](https://youtu.be/Lh9FBF9V8Hk) to be more listenable
He won’t get fooled again.
The Talking Heads used to say that the only thing worse than a drum solo is a bass solo.
I've must have seen this exact post at least a 8 times on the front page but usually it's from the repost purgatory that is TIL (that's I unsubbed from long ago). I just don't understand why this fact is such a karma gold mind.
I think it takes an exceptional musician to make an interesting drum solo. I once watched Jack DeJohnette play drums unaccompanied for maybe 45 minutes at a clinic, and it was incredible. But that is the exception.
[It gets weird when he does a drum solo.  Dat mothafucka has fish in his drums, some kind of wiskers or something painted on his face and there are people doing some kind of funky dance in the aisle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O5Up-qHTJdY&app=desktop)
I'd say the same if I were in his shoes. Just for the fact that he isnt as talented as metal drummers or jazz drummers
I agree with Moon but a succinct, 16 bar solo with form and content to its arc can be great. With that said, 1974 was in that zone where a 10 minute wankfest timed for when when most of the audience would be at the peak of their collective acid trip was obligatory. Luckily lots of artists began realizing it was silly and by the end of that decade the reverse aesthetic fueled the less-is-more rule of our saviour, punk rock. 
If you're that bad ass you really don't need to do a drum solo. But as a drummer I do see their Merit.
Soul Sacrifice drum solo
Unless you’re this man... 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=Ryd0yS_KW9M
Carter Beauford disagrees
Meg White had a laborious 1:30 minute solo a few times. 
I guess he must not like In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida
I think drum solos are pretty cool in their own respect. Michael Shrieve's drum solo during Soul Sacrifice with Santana at Woodstock '69 is probably the sweetest drum solo i've had the pleasure of listening to. Pretty sure he was only like 16 at the time too.
I love drum solos but I’d have to defer to Moon on whatever he has to say about the subject. 
He was not wrong. They are boring. But Keith Moon was amazing.
And the tickets were only 35 bucks! Thanks rock stars!
You assholes.
He's not wrong...
I'm not usually a fan of drum solos but when Animals as Leaders has Matt Garstka do a solo it is a real treat. 
how does an instrument get a name that sounds so similar to the word "dumb"
I dissagree and would recommend Mr. Moon check out Drums Around the Corner by Art Blakey
He's got a good point, ai can't think of any song where I look forward to a drum solo.
ITT: People saying all long solos become boring and self-indulgent and then being countered by David Gilmour. 
To be fair, the entire band was so virtuousic that their live performances were pretty much just all of them soloing at the same time. And I say that in the most positive way possible, because it never came off as overplaying.
“Drum solos are boring, but if I play 2 bar fills at the end of every phrase it’ll be like I’m playing a drum solo during the whole song”
I'm fan of any good sounding solo, whether it be a guitar, drums or a bass etc. 
The more I hear about him, the more I hate Keith Moon. 
Wait, Who are we talking about? I've scrolled far down and no one's mentioned Who these people are; what band they are part of. 
He really looks like Ed Norton in that picture 
Eh. Sounds like humblebragging to me. "Oooo look at me look how humble I am!"

The great thing about drum solos is that they eventually end- and I'm a drummer. 
I’m so here for this. I hate soloing
And this is why I always appreciated Phil Collins. Until his late solo era tours...
Drummer here.  Hate long drum solos.  Or long anything solos for that matter.  Quit making it about you, ya masturbatin' prick!  The whole is more than the sum of its parts.
this is why keith was the best member of the who and the only drum solos allowed are buddy rich and gene krupa
As a drummer I couldn't agree more. I've always considered myself a time-keeper. Someone there to keep the rhythm moving but not draw too much attention to myself. Then again, I'm no Keith Moon.
While I can respect his talent, I can’t bring myself to like any drummer that destroys(ed) his instrument. It’s painful to think about and childish. 
The only drum solo I can handle listening to

https://youtu.be/UIVe-rZBcm4?t=363
Khruagbin at Bonnaroo last year went around doing a guitar then bass solo. When it came time for the drum solo the band just went quiet. After awhile they started playing again saying "That is the anti-drum solo. Nobody wants to hear a drum solo". Couldn't agree more. 
who? 
Keep in mind these were the times before zach hill existed: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYX4OlmvpDo
As great as Moon is I still think Ginger Baker is the best drummer this world has seen. Better than Art Blakey even. His playing on Do What You Like and Sunshine of Your Love and Toad are probably the best showcases of his talent.
The best drum solo i ever saw was paper lions. The dude was playing with 4 sticks at once, it was pretty cool to watch.
Drum solos suck 
Carl Palmer was king of making a whole lot of noise all by himself.
That man was an octopus
So did Sir Ringo. Only 1 solo in his entire Beatles career that he was tricked to play.
Reposting what I said in another thread:

>"I hate fucking watching drum solos. I hate playing them even more." -Tommy Lee

>I agree with this man.
Keith Moon is now my spirit animal. 
Ever sat through a John Paul Jones organ solo?
TIL: Keith Moon had one redeeming quality 
Excuse me? He was responsible for making a lot of good fucking music too.
Drum solos are for mouth breathers
Neither Bonham or Moon can touch Ginger Baker at drums. He blows them away.  Check out Beware of Mr. Baker on Netflix. 
I'm not familiar with his entire body of work, but everyone reading this should check out Masters of Reality's Sunrise on the Sufferbus.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_Cf-s72hig

"Bonham had technique, but he couldn't swing a fucking sack of shit. ...or Moony for that matter."

Ginger Baker sucks, worst drummer in popular music history.
his solos were just boring.
Agree. 
Couldn’t agree more
That's rock and roll. I was at an April Wine concert once where the drummer was doing a kickass long 70s style drum solo and just when the crowd was going wild, he did a big huff from an oxygen tank beside him and then kept going, then the crowd went nuts because it was awesome. Other than that I agree, drum solos can be boring.
China's most intimate video yet https://youtu.be/tBRXzopvnGU 
How is this relevant?
Danny Carey's solo isn't too shabby...  https://youtu.be/3icNQDT8t64
As a drummer in a working band, I concur with this statement. I'd much rather hear a sax solo then it drum solo.
Me too.  
Keith Moon would changed his mind if he'd heard Phil Collins In the Air Tonight.
A jazz solo with horn hits embedded is great, but I was never a fan of having 8 or 12 or whatever leading back into an A section, the drummer is there to keep time for the ensemble. 
I remember watching a clip where his drums blew up, man, he really lived up to his name.
Keith Moon was also a junkie who played songs like they were solos.

You can't play an interesting solo when you are tranqed up, but guys like Buddy Rich, John Bohnam, Elvin Jones, Neil Peart...

They all went at it differently, but some of them you can tell they are physically putting it all out there. Johm Bonham and Neil Peart almost compose an entire song during their drum solos.


Solos at a local show likely aren't done right and dont have someone talented enough to "bring it".
Good for him. But Moby Dick is awesome. 
He's totally right most of the time. When a drum solo is used to show off drumming skill and tricks, it's impressive but tedious noise. Even the best drummers in the world, who can do the most amazing things, suffer from this. It just turns out that amazing things done on drums work better as accents. As a whole set... it's almost cringe-worthy; I get it... you're an awesome drummer. Can we get back to the music now?
That doesn't mean a drum solo can't be musical and awesome. u/malkusch has a fine example in these comments, but there isn't anything super impressive about the skills they displayed. It's just good music. You very rarely get that at a concert though because solos are usually used to showcase the most impressive skill instead of the best musicality. 
If your a drummer and you think drum solos are Boring you must not be a very good drummer......
This is such a Western complaint, mainly because our music has historically prioritized melody over rhythm. World music can be so drum heavy and they don't get bored by it. Tabla solos (which consists of 2 drums with dozens of possible notes) are key to North Indian music, a lot of African music (like the music of the Ewe) is literally all drums, and many African influenced styles like Afro-Cuban music are very rhythm based. As a matter of fact, pretty much everything that's African-influenced acknowledges or prioritizes the beauty of rhythmic complexity.
As a drummer, I also find drum solos pretty boring. The only one that I really find enjoyable is Moby Dick, besides that, they just kinda drag on ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 
A song isn't a song without a drum beat, but drum solos suck
All solos are boring.  Don't bore us, get to the chorus.
Yeah but so many songs repeat the chorus at least 3 times, it gets old fast.

In fact all music that isn't 1 minute long commercial jingles is bloated, boring crap.
So you only enjoy the chorus?
So as Iron Maiden’s Nicko McBrain. Hated them but still played haha
I hate when I'm doing a drum or percussion solo in a gig, and everyone else stops playing. I agree with Moon, it's fucking boring. If everyone else keeps playing, I'll play around the melody with multiple folks like a solo, except it'll actually keep people dancing.
Smart man. Drum solos suck. 
Overall Keith Moon kind of sounds like an ungrateful self absorbed piece of shit. 
Neil Peart disagrees. Drum solos are fucking great.
Yeah, his were boring. The only one he ever recorded was a semi ripoff of Ringo's solo on Abbey Road. I can still listen to Toad today. Can't say the same for anything by the Who. 
You can't enjoy [Real Good Looking Boy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uo7txrhTFoI), [5.15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OR5v4yyPV6Y) or [Love Reign O'er Me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDbAtWpoA6k)!?

You have my unending sympathy
Yeah, I love Crea more than I love the Who, but they're both amazing bands so I don't know what he's on about
I wish I could say I like this guy, but he went a died a stupid death and so is no longer alive to do more things like this.

You people who are down voting this are bloody incompetents.  Read the entire sentence before getting some more beers.  I wish he were still alive to do more things like this.  I don't like that he died so soon; before he could.
So you don't like people who are dead?
I don't like people who die from a preventable cause like alcoholic addiction.  Is this so difficult to comprehend?  Poisoning one's self to death does not make a good human.

It's sad that he died so soon and couldn't have given us more dry wit like quitting mid-set.  That's funny, and audacious.  I wish I'd have been at that show.  It makes me wonder what the antics at Who shows would have been like in the 80s or 90s.  Sadly (see above) we'll never know.
That seems pretty fucked though, to not like someone for that reason when they clearly had a drug problem/addiction. 
Maybe you're right.  We could cheer for and praise his death.
Are you a moron or something? Or just a gigantic asshole?
There's no reason to resort to name calling.  That's just poor articulation.  I offered my opinion.  Take it or leave it.  We can discuss it.  I'd be willing to do that, but we can only discuss the topic if there were some substance to your responses, though.  Saying something's "fucked" does not offer any description to elaborate on, nor does calling names.
You don't get to play the "I'm an intellectual" card after the mind bogglingly ignorant things you've said 
This.  They're one of those bands where everyone is playing lead.  
Huh?  He sounds like a drummer keeping rhythm.  If everything he played was a solo, it'd sound like ass.
I knew exactly what he was referring to and it seems as though everyone else did too. 
that's pretty neat!
Man why can't I just stumble upon things like this when I go out haha.
Psychedelic rock always has the best solos.

As a kid I was so fascinated by the drum solo in inna gadda da vida. Up to that point I hadn't even considered drum solos to be a thing (i was quite young)
Back in my band days we had two drummers that would do a whole 25 min routine.  The rest of the band enjoyed the break as well.   These were 4-5 hour gigs though so all breaks were welcome.  
The best "songs" my band has played while on atage were just random jam outs while the vocalist grabbed another drink. Crowds fucking love them if you do it right.
Brilliant! A shame you don’t know their name. 
The Guess Who did this on their Live at the Paramount album and it resulted in a great ~8min drum solo. 
I saw a band play Heartbreaker by Led Zeppelin and when they got to the psychadelic part the rest of the band except the lead guitarist left and had a beer and a smoke and a couple minutes they came back and starting playing the song flawlessly. It was pretty cool. 
I watched Ian Anderson do this to his new drummer this past summer. He explained that it was something they used to do all the time, just one by one stop playing and leave the drummer to play a ridiculously long solo while they go back stage for 10 minutes or so.
By any tiny measure of a chance, do you remember the name of that band?
That doesn't sound too bad.

For Andrew McMahon In The Wilderness, there's a part in a few of his songs where vocals drop off. During live shows, he'll mount an inflatable pool toy and often ride it to the bar for another drink (but I think he's been trying to get that under control). 

Great way to combat [groping](https://youtu.be/31py7gT0rCw) 
Earshot's drummer could lay down a solid solo.
This sounds like “Toad” by Cream
My band director likes to do the same type of thing where he'll leave during a drum solo (usually the pep band arrangement of Frankenstein or any drum solo in jazz band) and come back 5 minutes later with a pepsi and some skittles
I have a tell to tale from the opposite end of the spectrum: Worst drum solo I ever heard. (Atleast I've never been let more down by a drum solo). 

Led Zeppelin. It was in 1976 or 1977, fucked if I can remember, but I was in the US during those two years. Page sauntered around on unsteady legs, all pale and thin and sickish looking. Bonham did what felt like a 20 minute solo, and no one really bothered to listen. People went to the bathroom, talked or drank beers or lit up instead. 

If a twenty minute drum solo is going to be interesting there needs to be some sort of fire going in the band, or communication with the audience at least. This felt like going through the motions, because hey, gotta have a drum solo. In retrospect I suppose the whole band was gonged to the gills and blown out of their minds on god knows what.
Where abouts was that?? 
Mute math drummer does insane solos https://youtu.be/vQHHRBsTc7I
As a drummer, i also hate playing drum solos because I just feel like im noodling but I am often asked to so the band can have a break and order drinks lol.  
I saw Rogers Waters do a very similar thing, except the rest of the band all sat at a table onstage and played poker.
Hella did a similar thing when I saw them open for The Mars Volta and System of a Down.
This is my favorite drum solo of all time. https://youtu.be/0LBZJk5Kfgw
So the drummer didn't get a pint? Bloody typical!
As I've grown older, I've found prolonged solos of any instrument have gotten less and less appealing to me. 
I think Ringo's drum solo on The End is the perfect length. Any longer and it gets tedious
what do you think of Moby Dick by led zeppelin? song is basically just a long ass drum solo
King Crimson current lineup have 3 drummers/percussionist and they all play live at the same time. They have 4 different solos/stand alone songs in a 3h show where only the three drummers play and it is not boring at all.
I love the moby dick drum solo
I was at a concert of The Aristocrats. Marco Minnemann broke into a pretty long drum solo. It was pretty awesome. 
Drummer for 20 years here. Couldn’t agree with you more. TBH I care more about them being in tune than anything at this point. 


Zach hill tho
Man, I can't agree that *any* kind of instrumental solo is boring, unless it's the same one being repeated over and over again, which makes me think of jam band guitar solos that do get boring and overly repetitive really quickly (you probably know which ones I'm talking about.) That's why in my opinion, Umphrey's McGee is in a whole different class of their own when it comes to jam bands and guitar solos. Their shows are elite-level amazing.
As a drummer, [I couldn't disagree more](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NAY6DT4t4c)
https://youtu.be/NoDsJAiseGg "Don't Stay Home," 311
As a keyboardist, I’m telling you that drum solos can be awesome. **Usually** they are a bunch of nonsensical banging... BUT a well done drum solo is rhythmic, makes people want to move, and sounds good 
Yep, the intro for "Welcome to the family" comes to mind(the demo/live version not the album one).
Same. Fantastic soloists like Neil Peart, Ginger Baker, Jimmy Chamberlain, John Bonham and Bill Bruford inspired me to begin playing drums. After some years of playing, I realized that my favorite drummers *don't play the drums*. *They play the song*, if that makes any sense. Drummers that are in the pocket, grooving, build the foundation for a truly great song to be placed upon. All the fellas listed above are more-than-capable of doing that, but I began to appreciate guys like Phil Collins (seriously), Keith Moon (who's subtleties in accenting vocal melodies is unmatched), Stewart Copeland, Maurice White, Will Calhoun, Earl Hudson and session guys like Steve Gadd, Bernard Purdie and Vinnie Colaiuta are masters of the groove.
1-3 minutes is a decent length.  I've seen solos that go on for like 8 minutes and the appeal just isn't there.
Saw Ray Cooper with Clapton - it was an amazing percussion solo, not like a typical drum solo, wish I had audio of it
Even Buddy Rich's great drum solos just aren't all that great for me to listen to.  Can really appreciate the technique and skill but they always end up sounding way too repetitive and boring to me.
Solos un general are boring, so much so that I refuse to attend concerts or listen to live recordings from repeat offenders. It's lazy and undermining to fans. A prime example would be anything recorded live from lynard skinnard.
When they are in the context of a song it's super cool. When everybody leaves the stage so the drummer can masturbate it's not cool.
What do you think about Joe Morello’s solo in “Take Five”?

https://youtu.be/t-dtpYdQwPE
Was this a Toto reference? I saw them a couple weeks ago and EVERY song had a massive solo or instrumental break. I was thinking, ffs you've played for 40yrs, you must have more songs. They made Africa last 12 minutes. I mean, I like Africa but I was nodding out at 7 mins. Maybe it's a Toto thing, I don't know.
https://youtu.be/puQnDBkeiAw?t=49

bass solos can be awesome
There's a Dr Who villain like this.
>Jazz bass solos are especially boring I think \- and I play bass! Hard to hear, hard to follow \(maybe because they're hard to hear\), and all that.
Drummer here, couldn't agree more. 
Plus drums are good for rhythm, they just can't really compete with other instruments for the variety of notes needed for a solo.
With jazz, you can hear the piece through  a good drum solo. Also, most of the time they are accompanied with the rest of the group. Then it's more the drummer's point of view on the piece, and less of a showboating excersise; although that happens too: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WodBZOe6FGQ&app=desktop
I don't have anything against drum solos but the thing about locking into a band is dead on for me. I can't play solos because I play off of other people. 
Bass player here. Fully agree with you. 
Take rhythm out of your sentence. It's more of societal thing at this point. It could have been the other way around if the first rock stars were drummers instead (which may have been impossible with early instruments and recording equipment)

As prog music grows, drummers are getting MUCH more expressive while also keeping a beat, and luckily, not always needing to. Chon is a great example. You can tell he doesn't have his style quite down yet, but he won't accept being in the background all of the time and pushes the boundaries past ordinary rhythms meant to just support a band. Yhe band in turn, must understand the beat themselves sometimes. This is where bands usually fall apart.

I mean, wth do you think drumlines do? It's amazing what can happen when all of the musicians are professional and don't need a drummer as a metronome.
Fun fact, Page would use Moby Dick as an opportunity to go backstage and get a blowjob. Once, he went back to the fucking hotel for a quickie and then came back to the show. 
I use isolated Bonham drum tracks as stress relief.
https://youtu.be/r9-42mu1D9Y

Saved you some clicks
Big fan of bonzos montage as well
Bonham manhandled every show he played. A true revolutionary.
I feel like what made Bonzo so great was the way he locked in with Jimmy and would play his guitar riffs with him. When the Levee breaks is a great example of this.
Brillant but also boring. And this coming from a drummer. 
Brilliant but also not boring. And this coming from a drummer too. What now? 
Yeah he was getting talked about a day or two ago, I forget where, but then I started reading his entire Wikipedia article, totally enthralling read. When I got to this part I posted it to /r/wikipedia, but it got zero traction. I thought, these guys are not passionate about rock music. Let's try /r/music. Boom, front page in a few hours.
What other subs is he featured in today?
We've been blessed with a lot of brilliant drmmers in rock but Moon made it fun... Happy Jack ftw
Ian Paice is the most underrated drummer of all time.
I'll admit that did get boring after about 20-30 seconds. Maybe less is more. Neiman did a good job at the end of *Whiplash*.
What bores you about it? That's some top-quality 70s rock drumming.
There's not enough variance, it's like bouncing a few marbles down a chute. Same basic pattern goes on and on and on. The technical ability is certainly strong but the imagination is lacking. Ok, a couple minutes in and it's getting better now, he's starting to change it up, shift the dynamics. Yeah, I have to say I'm digging it now. It's cool.

[That part at 16:20](https://youtu.be/7wluNKSXdxY?t=16m20s) reminds of ["Furnace"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=02ZLAj867Ng) from Hans Zimmer, in the 2049 score.
For drums, Moon, Bonham and Baker are my favorite, while my favorite bassists are Jack Bruce, John Entswistle and Paul McCartney
Neil Peart would like a word
I feel like the concept of "greatest" is meaningless in this context. There were more technically skilled drummers at the time, but there was no one better suited to The Who. With a thing like music everyone's skill set is unique, so you can't really have a greatest. Had  Keith Moon played the Led Zeppelin, The Beatles, or Pink Floyd, he would have been shit. But he played in The Who, so he was amazing. Saying he was the best or the greatest seems like it misses the point of why he didn't like drum solos. 
>Saying he was the best or the greatest seems like it misses the point of why he didn't like drum solos. 

No. Being the greatest is a completely separate thing from a percussive interlude/section of music. 

That’s like saying Beethoven couldn’t be the greatest because sonatas are boring. 
Saying he was the greatest puts the spot light on him, rather than the band. Drums solos do exactly that as well. I think he knew that it was all about how you played with the band, and how the member's styles fit together. Saying he was the greatest misses that point. He was the greatest possible drummer for The Who, but, just like everyone else he was lacking in other areas. Saying he was the greatest is meaningless. You cannot compare Keith Moon to Ringo Star, or Buddy Rich. Each could not do what the others did. It's like asking who was better Wayne Gretzky or Lionel Messi, it does not compare.
Neil and Zach Hill are the only drummers whose solos I enjoy listening to. 

Neil b/c he makes it interesting with all the extra sounds. 
Zach I'm not too sure why, but I was drawn to him initially b/c he takes the speed and power that I usually found boring in a drum solo, and applies it across all the music he plays. And it just doesn't sound boring (somehow). 

Overall I think solos are great when the serve the tension of the music. The crescendo-ing and release. 
 
Lol, Neil Peart is one of the most self indulgent drummers ever. Fuck off Neil.
How so?
Buddy Rich, and the legion of extraordinary Jazz drummers, beg to differ.
There's this contrapuntal drums-and-percussion solo, well duo, near the end of Dire Straits [live album performance of "Calling Elvis"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HV1GZclT17c) in 1993 that's pretty terrific. Fair warning, the track is nine minutes long, but it's as good as they come.
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=-cpqZsZ7HBQ
They're pretty badass I think.
It's easily recognizable and repeatable. Melodic. 
So glad I got to see him live at least once
Nobody could have a word with Peart. He stands alone in his own class of Drummer.
Neil is an amazing drummer and writer. He’s also a big fan of Moon and The Who. 
LICK THE BEAM MICKEY DO IT !!!!!
Two names. Mickey Hart and Bill Kreutzmann 
Another name: Bill Kreutzmann
Mickey and Bill dont play drum soloes.

They play drum songs.
True. He didn't need to solo onstage. His life was already a giant drum solo.

Also you forgot about him putting bombs in his bass drums.
I really like the way the Grateful Dead does it. A lot of times what they'll do is transition out of a song into a drum solo, then transition from the drum solo into really a spacey pure improv jam (aptly called Space) into a song like The Wheel or something. 
The best solos change the rhythm and tempo.  Santanas drummer at woodstock had a great drum solo.  But a good solo is hard to master. Listen to travis barkers solos they are meh even though he is a great drummer.  

But most drummers I know hate to do solos.  They are there too keep the beat and by having a solo it departs from that mission. 


See: Meg White Drumming
well XYZ drummer begs to differ!

*link to boring drum solo*
Just listened to some of these links is and while I can agree that these people are talented, Keith Moon sure was right. Drum solos are boring 

But I'm sure it has something to do with my lack of musical understanding, maybe other drummers find these really really interesting
Drum solos are usually only interesting to drummers, bassists, jazz fans, and people at jam band concerts. The only solos that I've seen non-drummers really like are the ones played by more melodic drummers who create loops, play pitched instruments like malletkats, and use their pitched drums in more than just a rhythmic way. Those drummers are very, very rare though.
thought so, thanks for the reply
Also keep in mind that is mainly a Western complaint, because our music has historically prioritized melody over rhythm. World music can be so drum heavy and they don't get bored by it. Tabla solos (which consists of 2 drums with dozens of possible notes) are key to North Indian music, a lot of African music (like the music of the Ewe) is literally all drums, and many African influenced styles like Afro-Cuban music are very rhythm based. As a matter of fact, pretty much everything that's African-influenced acknowledges or prioritizes the use of rhythmic complexity. 
I've found that the majority of experienced drummers I've performed with tend to agree. As they get older they seem to just kinda grow out of it. Instead of drum solos, they relish the ability to do a cool fill that introduces or supports parts played by the other musicians. 
I haven't seen any yet... they must be down below. I guess?
> In addition to hotel rooms, Moon destroyed friends' homes and even his own, throwing furniture from upper-storey windows and lighting fires. Andrew Neill and Matthew Kent estimated that his destruction of hotel toilets and plumbing cost as much as £300,000 ($500,000)

Not really
I loved the Sabbath solo. Saw it twice and was in awe both times. 
Compared to the 'average' jazz drummer he's quite lacking. Rock generally doesn't demand that much skill. 
Animal had that one in the bag, but then again.. Buddy Rich..
Well, "solo" means playing alone, but I know what you mean. Townsend was kind of the rhythm section on guitar, while Moon and Entwistle were able to free-form on their instruments.
Some definitely are just for that purpose, but take Pink Floyd for example, the guitar solos in their songs are never that complicated and fit the songs perfectly 
Outros work though. Mark Knopfler does a lot of these to conclude his songs. His guitar work has the emphasis but it's not the only thing going on, and it kind of closes the narrative framing of the song. ["Lady Writer"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QMBELh1zyo) might be the best example. Eric Clapton does terrific outros too, especially his recent take on ["I Shot The Sheriff"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-KRSpM8Rejs).
It depends on the guitarist. Shreddy solos aren’t my thing. 
Lol.  What?   Listen to Time or Comfortably Numb by Floyd and tell me it's just there because Gilmour wanted to show off....
>I find all solos a bit boring.

What? Really?! Solo's can be boring now and again, especially if it's a live gig and the guitarist is just replaying the solo from the album note for note. But in a lot of cases, solo's can be such an excellent cresendo for a song, it can bring it to new heights or even as a nice filler.

If you were to remove all solo's from every song out there then music would be so boring. To say that guitar solo's are only in there to "show off" is ridiculous. That may be true with amateur guitar players but when it comes to experienced players, it's an addition to the song. Some of the best solo's I've heard weren't even that technically advanced in terms of playing.


I am going to post a few songs with great solo's below. You can choose to skip to the solo but I'd recommend listening to the whole songs to see how well they work together.


[Pink Floyd - Time [1973] ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JwYX52BP2Sk) - solo starts at 2:50, one of the most iconic solos out there.

[The Clash - Jimmy Jazz [1979] ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShCSuFSauzU) - good example of a "filler" solo. Listen to the guitar and brass at 1:16

[Grateful Dead - Althea \[1982\]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2XQ8oEC3Ug) - So many solos in this song, absolutely amazing tune. 
If the solo doesn't add to the song and is there purely just to show off, the guitarist isn't good in the first place. A solo - shredding or bluesy or whatever - should always add to the song, not just be a separate entity. 
I love guitar solos that don't go over the top or overplay. If you can compose a lead line that fits in the pocket of the rhythm but at the same time is leading it, imo, you've got a good guitar solo. 
Super talented without question.  But sounds like a final project in "disappearing up your own ass" at Berklee
that's not even a solo, that's just sheer performance. And guys don't downvote without giving it a listen, it's real good.
> Nate Smith

Holy fuck, what did I just listen to… Goose bumps mode activated.
Right? His times are unreal.  And that pocket groove at the end that gets cut is just nasty. 
Exactly he's not even in the same category as Ginger Baker. 
I think anyone with rudimentary drumming skills can play a drum solo. Maybe not a good drum solo - if there even is such a thing. Peter Criss, for instance, played drum solos and he wasn't nearly as good as Moon.

Nevertheless, Moony wasn't wrong. Drum solos are boring as fuck for everyone except the drummer in most cases.
This is more of a monty python sketch than a drum solo. I honestly prefer this. 
welcome to the hell that is reddit. 
LOL, underrated comment right here 
Not Townshend, for the most part.  But everyone else.
If anyone is interested in any examples, "Heaven and Hell" from Live at Leeds or Live at the Isle of Wight shows this off well: http://youtu.be/Y6wP_mqr4cg
Mastodon
You can tell it's neat by the way that it is.
Tree poop
Unless you're that fucking beerless drummer.
Of course it it. You don't put ice in beer.
It’s a numbers game.  Gotta keep going out.  
>go out 

I sammich to struggle with that part 

Edit: *seem ...
Are you in a major music scene city? That’s kinda necessary.  
You were quite old by the time the song was over. 
Good call on this one - I love every note of that solo
same here.

Used to play along to it on my bongo drums until they mysteriously disappeared one day when I was at preschool.
were you in the Grateful Dead or something? 
That’s why jam bands are the best
Not OP but if you want a similar band check out Dopapod. 

I saw them jam at a tiny 5$ concert and then a few years later they were playing stuff like Electric Forest. They are so funky

EDIT: Umphrey's Mcgee is also great

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K284Xklufj0
Sorry! It was 25 years ago!
holy shit andrew mcmahon still makes music
Yeah, I'm the same. I think there's very few songs that can get away with an overly-long solo and to get away with it it has to be done right. Like, I think Freebird's ridiculously long outro solo works just because it keeps getting better and better as it goes, but not everyone can pull that off.
I do too. Comfortably Numb is one exception, tho...
My friend has described it as musical masturbation. A little bit is okay but eventually you forget to go out and play with your friends.
Freebird solos are still amazing.  Also Eruption, but that lost a bit of its luster when I saw about a million "3 YEAR OLD ASIAN KID OWNS ERUPTION AT CONCERT!!!!" videos.
I still love listening to Cream's long jams. 
I went to a friend's jazz show and they were good but Jesus everyone doesn't need a five minute solo. 

The old man alone with his guitar who followed held my attention more. 
I've always felt this way.
If it actually adds to the song I’m fine with it. There some solos that really are just filler 3/4ths of the way into it. Like the band decided “I guess we’ll put a solo here.” Good solos move and build and carry the emotion of a song, and not just try to melt your face off. 
Disagree, I’ll get high and watch Neil Peart videos for hours. 
The key to a good solo is that it isn't really a solo at all. Look at *Carry On My Wayward Son* or *Free Bird*. Those sights have really famous guitar solos, but the entire band complements what the guitarist is doing. It's a choreographed thing, not just some dude playing along to a repeating beat. 
Including the voice 
I think it depends on the artist/mixer. 

Listening to the covers by Jaiden Hammer really got me into it. Once you turn the volume up a bit all you really hear is her guitar and it sounds really powerful and "motivating". But solos where the instrument is basically so quiet because it wasn't mixed properly or something really don't make any fun. But I've also attended a concert where the bassist was basically just punching sound out and while it was fun it got boring pretty fast
oh interesting, I've had the total opposite experience. they used to bore me and i'd impatiently wait for them to be over, but now i really appreciate being able to listen to the isolated musician for a couple minutes. 
Conspirator has some pretty sweet guitar solos
Solos are boring. Jams are fantastic. 
Herbie Hancock gets it right sometimes. Wait there's Tower of Power too!
Dimebag Darryl's solos will never cease to amaze me.
I agree with you. Some things are worth listening to though. For example, Victor Wooten, the bass player has an entire album with just him on bass, no double tracks at all. Here is one of his songs from it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRuY9-iP9Gs&list=PLSLjIIx09Yj-NunbGLL9z_7r_-CbDB8W8
What about the organ solo in Light My Fire?
I agree most of the time. There are some exceptional musicians who can pull it off but even then it doesn't need to be on every song. That's one of the things that annoys me about a lot of jazz. Play the head, keyboard solo, guitar solo, drum solo, end. Next song same thing. The song isn't a song, it's just ans excuse to solo.
They also tricked Ringo into doing that!
I get tired of the solo after a bit but I love it when they play together with the riff!

I love the outro on the live version of dazed and confused which is kind of a solo. But even in that song which to me is one of the greatest drum performances in history I like the fills and contributions to the rhythm more.
Live version of Moby Dick (ick-ick-ick) from The Song Remains the Same is pretty amazing.
That song is such a letdown. Opens with one of Zeppelin's best riffs and ends up being a 3 minute drum solo
How about bonzo's montreaux 
Also percussionist, the live footage of Moby Dick is pretty incredible. Like a lot of people are saying, drum solos can be horrendously boring, yet Bonham managed to keep people engaged for tens of minutes. That takes a lot of skill and creativity.
[deleted]
Well I'm not a drummer but I can tell you that I love Bonham for his sound or tone or whatever its called on the drums.  He had a very distinct way of playing.  I do hate the Moby Dick solo though live.  
Heard theyve been playing alot of harder, metal-sounding shows, lately. Any input on this? I havent seen them in the last year or two. Or five. 
If you're talking about phish, I think you're mistaken; they're jams are rarely repetitive without growing into something much bigger.

The problem many people have is listening to it, thinking it's *just* a guitar solo without realizing that it isn't a solo...the other instruments aren't just accompanying a solo, they're pushing the jam in different directions as well.

The problem with small time, bar jam bands is that the band plays the same damn chord progression over and over while one person solos over it, never really taking the song anywhere. THAT is boring. Those usually don't make it out of the bars.

I love Umphrey's and will see them anytime they play within a 3 hour drive from me but Phish is just another level of beast, imo.

If you're not referring to phish... never mind. :)
also as a drummer, and as legendary as Neil Peart is, that was a boring enough drum solo. I'm sure there would be a certain electricity to seeing it live and if you were a massive Peart fanboy, but it dragged big time watching it there now.
Or y'know, [this one is pretty awesome](https://youtu.be/AqZceAQSJvc?t=160)

The whole song's great, but the drum solo is ridiculous
I get it. Peart is amazing and I can totally see why people love him especially drummers.

As a consumer, [I share your disagreement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HZeZw8PW6lw). Ok, technically it's not a solo, but a duet. They do this every weekend and the crowd is far from getting bored.
I disagree and I'm finishing my undergraduate on drums performance right now. That solo is technical yeah but oh my god it's so boring. A decent drum solo should either be emotional and careful, like Joe morello's take five https://youtu.be/t-dtpYdQwPE or be groovy as fuck and allow you to almost 'dance' to it.  https://youtu.be/ADWODreyby0 art Blakey is a master of doing this. Even then drum solos get boring. You maybe can remember one or two small phrases out of them but half the time it is mindless rudiments and insanity, you wanna be able to sing along or move your ass to the groove. Remember kids 4 on the floor pays the bills
Neil Peart stands alone. 
Well that's just not fair. Most mortals can't live up to that standard 
You have to understand Peart doesn’t do drum solos, he incorporates many percussion instruments in his solos. Often he’ll choose something more melodic during his solo such as a bell kit or marimba pad.
He's amazingly talented, there's no doubt about that. But fuck me that's boring to sit through and watch. I've thought the same thing at concerts for bands that I absolutely loved as well. I just can't get into it at all. 
If you haven't heard of him yet, you should check out benny greb. The way he's able to communicate through his instrument is, imo, unrivaled. I'm generally not one to play the "x drummer is the best" game but I think he's one that every drummer should familiarize themselves with.
I knew what this was immediately. 
Anytime I think of a drum solo, this is what comes to mind. Peart is just one of the best.
Neil Peart > Keith Moon.
Lool up his Frankfurt solo from like 2014, same hooks hes been practicing, and so much more.
Exactly.  Drum solos arent boring.  Boring drum solos are boring.
lol why does he have a comically excessive kit? This is why prog sucks
Prog sucks cause neil peart uses a big kit? 
wow this breaks my heart. i'd kick a child to see Toto live and the extended solos in their live albums are my favorite. but i did grow up playing jazz so i may have a higher tolerance to drawn out solos perhaps? i can see how they could get annoying. 
I found the joke on the internet a few years ago. That's all I know
They’re made up of studio musicians. They played on quite a few albums you wouldn’t expect.
Hate it when you're sitting at the kit and no one is playing, that guy comes up and says "play a solo man! What you got?"

Man, I want to groove. Even if I "solo", some song is in my head that I'm rocking out to.
As a drummer, I fully disagree. We wouldn't have prog metal with drummers pushing boundaries and other instruments able to keep a beat on their own.

https://youtu.be/8T-85IbmuxE
Just get 72 toms and play flight of the bumblebee
Not if you're creative enough to layer your rhythms to create a virtually limitless realm of possibilities, or use your drums melodically (which is very rare, only a handful of drummers like Danny Carey with his large kit, synths, and almost a dozen electronic drums can pull that off).

This is mostly a western complaint. World music is very drum heavy. Look at tabla solos for example. Only 2 drums and they have dozens of possible notes to play. Or many kinds of African music, which are literally all drums.
Polyrhythms. Toms. Electronic kits. Melodic backong. Jaw dropping chops. All simple things that can make an amazing drum solo.

We usually see the egotistical heading to guitar or singer though.

https://youtu.be/8T-85IbmuxE

And in Buddy's case, practicing countless times with the band until it sounded perfect. 
Take 5 is the best example I can think of to emphasize your point.
What else would you do at the Fucking Hotel?
I want to believe
I’m gonna need a sauce on this
I mean you hear this shit about every big name male rock artist from that era. Like I've more-or-less verbatim read the same things about Freddie Mercury, Mick Jagger, etc. 
Page also kidnapped a 13 year old girl to use as his sex slave
Her name is Lori Mattix, a “Baby Groupie” who been with a lot of rockstars at the time. [Here she is with Keith Moon.](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/ca/d1/58/cad1581fb92e8e969631e5e42cedbc1f.jpg) She also claims that David Bowie took her virginity.
*According to a bunch of tabloids and an interview with the girl, who was a groupie that wanted it anyway
Those damn 13 year olds always wanting consensual sex!
Those damn tabloids with their amazing reputation of truthfulness! Why, they provide a great service to our people by accusing people of rape with sensationalized headlines backed by little evidence!

Also, one look at wattpad will show you that many crazed 13 year old girls do want consentual sex. Plus, Jimmy Page was 13 himself when he started in music.
> Plus, Jimmy Page was 13 himself when he started in music.

But he wasn't 13 when he had sex with her. That's not how time works.

If I started professionally *anything* at 13, that doesn't mean decade or so later I can sleep with 13 years olds that are into that hobby.
Well, first of all, let's stop assuming that this actually happened. He's innocent until he's proven guilty, which he hasn't been at all. Second of all, fame is incredibly damaging to a young person's mind. Just look at the 27 club, Justin Bieber, XXXTentacion, Mike Tyson, or any kind of child stars. Look how many of them end up in jail, on drugs, or dead. It's incredibly poisonous to the growth of maturity and ideas of consequences. You think he'd have the common sense to avoid girls of any age that are throwing themselves on him?
Fool In The Rain - the isolated drumming track is therapy. If I was charged $200 per hour by a psychiatrist and they just thrashed out that, I'd feel pretty chilled.
It's Bonzo's Montreux, but yeah it's a great one.
/r/music ain't that passionate about music
There was a TIL and a Listen To This, if memory serves.
A drummer told me he was "The best drummer in the world" but I'm not sure Deep Purple was as widely appreciated as they perhaps deserved, which meant neither was he. (I know Deep Purple were a big band. They were my No.1.)
Entwhistle. Damn. 
McCartney was far and away the most musically talented Beatle. Entwhistle was basically the Hendrix of bass, but Paul could do more with other instruments \(although Entwhistle knew how to play horns\). Rock and Roll was really interesting when those guys were around. I think that talent\-wise, the Who has pretty much everyone beat, but other groups had one or two guys who were just as good or better. 
I doubt Neil Peart would "like a word" with anyone who said Moon was the best.  He's too classy for that.  
Try mark guiliana, his solos are musical
There’s drum solos played with the band and unaccompanied drum solos.

Even with a great drum player an unaccompanied drum solo can get tedious quickly.  


As a drummer, even Buddy Rich's solos bore me. Buddy Rich in general is kind of a boring player, he overplays.
Jazz is very much not my thing, so that isn't changing my opinion on drum solos.
Buddy was incredible, but his drumming is super uninspiring and mechanical. 
Tell that to Bonham, Ian Paice, Ginger Baker, Bill Ward, Phil Collins, and the countless other rock-drummer gods who cite Rich as a major influence.
Me too. R40. I wish I had the chance to see earlier tours. 
I am lucky to have seen them once live as well. I'll never say drum solos are boring after seeing him spinning around on his 360 set with so much energy after being onstage for 5 hours. Dudes not young but he still played like it.
Can we have an example of his proficiency?
Do you jerk his cock off with those fingers bud? 
Holy shit to be given the chance to jack off Neil Peart 

He's great. What you're saying is just disrespectful and ignorant. 
Bill Kreutzmann and Mickey Hart. 
Jam bands like The Grateful Dead and Allman Brothers know how to do drum solos just right.
Bum chi, bum bum chi. Bum chi, bum bum chi. 

For 60 minutes. 
I didn't like it. I was there to see sabbath. Not some session drummer fill time.
I thought about Pink Floyd and then looked down and read it in your comment. 
!redditsilver
Yes please.
A perfect example of a perfect outro is Neil Young's Cinnamon Girl
One of my favorite renditions. [Eric Clapton - I Shot the Sheriff](https://youtu.be/10qLYy6hiFQ) 
Yeah, it definetly depends. Shreddy solos are fun, but they often add nothing to the song. 
That's one of Dr. Gadd's classes.
The best kinds of drum solos, in my opinion, are short, sweet and full of pocket - drum solos that segueway beautifully into a song, or another section. 

John Bonham is my favourite drummer, but 5-10 minutes of Moby Dick, let alone 20-30 minutes is too much for me. 
This comment chain is a great description of the band. Townsend tied together the very unique and descriptive talents of Moon, Entwistle, and Daltrey. 
Yeah funny enough moon actually followed townshend, instead of entwistle.
Smile, ya buggers! Pretend it's Christmas!
I want everyone to know how neat it is instead of just me and rodney knowing it!
Oh score it’s an aspen!
They don't think it be like it is but it do.
And the pixels 
*Neato!*
Rodney 
So much for that then 
Never stop seeing psychedelic rock bands 
If that's in your autocorrect, you type sammich way too much.
Oi make us one
Not really, I'm from Stockholm and we do have a music scene but its more around electronic music as far as I know. 
It's what, 17 minutes? Now, if we go to Thick as a Brick, Mountain Jam, or Tubular Bells...
"Remember when we used to make out to this song?"
Bar bands commonly play 9:30pm-1:30am. 45 minute sets with 15 minute breaks. 
Please don't be Donna
Lol, no.  At one point a 9 person R&B band with full horn section and later tone down to a five piece 90s alt band (singer, bass guitar, two drummers).  The two drummers were one on a full-sized kit and the other playing percussion: congas, timbales, shakers, etc. both guys had epic setups.   We also had a full PA, lights, and a bus. 

This was all back in the mid 90s.  The percussionist now tours with some relatively big names.  
was about to say "Found Phil".
But they all have to have chemistry with each other. Ive seen a band where only the bassist and the lead guitar jammed out, and the drummer jumped in and messed it up.
i love them, Never Odd or Even is an amazing album
I went to see Dopapod and was terribly dissapointed. Too much EDM like music. So.e of it could have been decent, but they torched it with electronica.
Yeah baby he does.
Something Corporate, Jacks Mannequin, Andrew McMahon In The Wilderness. He's on tour right now 
David Gimore's guitar solo in Comfortably Numb comes to mind, as does Mark Knopfler's in Sultans of Swing. 
It’s much better when a “solo”  is accompanied with the rest of the band, but technically a solo is when you’re playing by yourself, which is what I believe Keith was referring to.  I agree with Keith.  Solos are boring.  I don’t need to watch people wank it on stage.  
Frank Zappa muffin man live. If you like rocknroll that one is hard to beat
I think it’s because the band keeps changing the parts underneath. There are dynamic changes, rhythmic accents matching the solo, etc. It’s not just the same exact thing played over and over even though it’s the same chords the whole time. 
Also i feel like multi-guitar guitar solos make a difference too. free bird and hotel california come to mind, but having more than one guitar playing different parts, even if the difference is slight, keeps that “band” feeling in a way since you have instruments working off each other still 
Well it’s like a whole different song so that helps.
Gilmour is an exception.
Your suggestion to masturbate to myself beatboxing has been taken on board.
Typically in my groups masturbating comes when playing on groups and completely focusing on your own parts wanking all over the music, ruining the song.... Keith Moon saying this is ironic
Some people like watching people masturbate, because one day, they want to be able to masturbate that well too.
Eruption is only like 3 minutes long though so it doesn’t have enough length to get old. 
And now I'm hungry for scones.
The version of Spoonful on Wheels of Fire is...wow. It shattered my mind the first time I heard it. 
Well to be fair that’s literally what jazz is
five minutes is pretty overkill. 
Awful songs.
How?
honestly Led Zeppelin in general are really bad for being instrument-wanky
They also had the wanking chops to pull it off
They have definitely added a more progressive metalish sound to some parts of their set but still have a jam band kind of feel.  They mix it up really well.  Their jams tend to get heavier towards the climax.
I mean I haven't seen them since 2014, which was the fourth year in a row I saw them on 4/20 in Austin (which I'm kind of sad they didn't play there today.) But as far as I know, and from the random concert videos I've watched on YouTube, they are still as diverse with their setlists as they've always been. Their album Death By Stereo leaned a little more towards harder rock/metal than their previous stuff, but I love it.
Ha I was referring to the generic jam bands that you mentioned who just play the same progressions for hours. And I'm a bigger fan of Umphrey's and progressive rock in general, but I absolutely respect Phish.
That's actually not a drum solo. That's how Neil Peart jacks off. Only way he's been able too since 78'
Thats why they dont record drum solos, its more of an experience where the drummer reflects the energy of the crowd back.

Yeah its not gonna be stuck in your head like "Tom Sawyer", but you may hear something you've never heard before if the drummer has any skills
I can totally understand the lack of appeal to most people, but I don't find it boring at all. This isn't his best solo on youtube, but I didn't want to link to a six minute one in this thread.
Yeah I'm a drummer and I generally can't stand Peart though I admire his insane talent. 

To me drums are more about setting grooves and changing mood and adding flavor that you can't quite put your thumb on. To me the most technically proficient drummers are the ones who do stuff that no one notices but adds SO much to songs. 

I don't mean to be a gatekeeper, drumming is so diverse and people love drums for different reasons and it's all cool as hell. 

One of my favorite things is when I'm drumming and someone else in the band is soloing. I love providing a really simply repeating but groovy beat to provide them a background layer of energy. It turns into a feedback loop where I'll build up energy along with the soloist, and then wane it down. 

The best part about drumming is being that capstone to the energy on stage and being able to sense where the energy is going and subtly direct it there. 

Fuck I miss drumming, it's been months. 
Just described why Chad Smith is my favorite drummer, the dude just has the perfect balance with playing basic beats and giving them just the smallest touches to make them incredible. Guy knows how to stay simple without making it boring, and he compliments the bass and guitar perfectly. 
Dude was only like 19 iirc
Carlos Santana has been playing the same exact thing for 50 fucking years goddamn.
As a drummer I think those guys are way more interesting than the Pert solo because they kept a consistent groove the whole time. They threw in some dope fills but they layered them over rhythms that people could move to. It was a drum solo for the people.

Most classic rock drum solos are just masturbatory exhibits of who can play the fastest. Even if they're technically impressive and there are some cool rhythms for a few seconds, after the tempo and the rhythm abruptly changes a few times it gets pretty dull.
Love when music gives me goosebumps :) thanks for this 
Damn thats really great.
Looks like they want people dancing and involved. Some drum solos are meant to bring out emotions.

Two likely very different things.
This is buskers entertaining a crowd and doing it well, not a drum solo. You replace those two guys with Peart and his drum solo, that crowd would vanish.
That was really cool.
A [sort-of-duet](https://youtu.be/QvIuzUF1fWs?t=187) of a different variety.
This is rhythmic and dancable, a lot of drum solos aren't. They are just technical displays of increasingly fast and intricate snare rolls. 
I would offer the following solo by Omar Hakim as a nice "in between", frankly this is one of my favorite performances, love the whole lineup. Wish I had a HD recording of it with proper sound, still its pretty good.

https://youtu.be/GZOkyQx3jIw?t=694
Yes! Technically amazing is not enough to make good music. There must also be musicality. 
Yep, but then most prog is wankery
To be fair, they were excellent. I just thought 40 years worth of music was worth sharing more. It was at the Royal Albert Hall. We had crappy seats so my wife sneaked off and upgraded us to a box right next to the stage. We got invaded by a few very drunk, very vocal tourists about 30 mins from the end, when they played Africa. This put a damper on things because I don't like drunk loud people. I just never know if they'll kick off and start a fight. All in all I enjoyed the music. They're touring for their 40th anniversary, you might be able to catch them.
I'm the same, for me drumming is always about complementing what other musicians are doing, drums on their own are like a guitar with one string. A drum intro is fine as long as it leads in to what the rest of the band are about to do but I never have and never will be into drum solo's. Even when someone in my band comes in with a song they've written they might say the old classic "give me a beat" but I refuse to hit a single drum until I've heard what they're going to play and have an idea of what kind of dynamic they're going for :)
Yeah I expect a lot of drummers would, neither of us are wrong it's just 2 different schools of thought. 
No prog metal sounds like a fucking great idea. Is is fucking noise. 
[or better yet play the drum fill to hawaii 5-0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VV5JOQyUYNg)
That doesn't mean anything really. You're still using percussive hits to create rhythm. It just can't invoke the type of emotion actual musical notes strung together can.
An amazing drum solo is like having a well done steak. It can only be so good. Other instruments have the potential for a perfectly cooked medium rare steak. 

It's not a knock at percussion, you just can't compete with all the combinations a guitar or piano can do.
Ive already stared what can make a drum solo more memorable than a guitar solo. You need some in person enlightment! This isnt the age of 4/4 beat keeping drummers anymore my friends. Times are changing.

What I think you are mostly referring to is lack of melodic expression in drums though. That's were a backing comes in, just like how guitar solos often need a simple beat or backing harmony.
nothing will be more memorable than solos like this

https://youtu.be/hGoFLYYQi4Q?t=210
https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.vanityfair.com/culture/2003/11/led-zeppelin-1970s-lisa-robinson/amp
Sorry, the ladies got it first.
I read my cassette wrong 25 years ago and never noticed.  Cheers
Their earlier, prog rock /psych music doesn't get as much attention as their heavy metal stuff, but I feel that's where their talents really came through. 
As someone with the name Entwistle, you have one job and that's to remove the h!
I was thinking of the unaccompanied ones when I wrote the comment. Like Buddy's in Caravan.

If you're trying to say that playing a good drum solo is a very hard thing to do then I completely agree. I think it's doable but not easy at all.
To each his own. I doubt you can ever find two people who have the exact same music taste.
It's not really overplaying when the music calls for it.
I don't ever remember seeing one of Buddy's sets and thinking "his playing is appropriate for this music".
But you **have** heard of Buddy Rich, and most people wouldn't have had he toned it down. 
That's true, he had unmatched technical skill, but showing off your skills and playing for the music are sometimes one and the same, sometimes not. I think I'm Buddy's case it was typically the latter.
Fair enough. I'm willing to keep an open mind, but I'm a huge Rich fan. Maybe it's like how Buckethead has insane technical skills as a guitarist but gets criticized for being too mechanical and "soleless." 
I have... It's called swing music. It's the OG metal.

I will say though, Buddy Rich's solos were more impressive and virtuosic than musical.
I'm just pointing out that an opposing opinion exists and, to some degree, it is well-founded.

You can keep your opinion, I can keep mine. No harm done to anyone.
No problem, everyone enjoys different music.
[S](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-ozha7ydJM)u[r](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ttZIyNf6TS8)e[!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aT9333XiR4U)
Many years ago a dude I knew made the best analogy for flashy fast guitar playing I've ever heard. He said it's like those Buddhist monks that can lift 50lb bags of sand with their dicks: it's impressive, but so what?
He's known for being a huge asshole. 
It's like there were 4 totally distinct personalities competing for dominance.  Like schizophrenia but with four.  Some type of quadrophenia, maybe?
The What?
"very unique".... no, no, no, no, and no. You know this, we've been over it a dozen times. "Unique" means the only example - remove the "very" or leave the room.
Sometimes you gotta shake things up a bit... get the Earth movin 
Yo can say its an aspen by the way it is 
[You missed the reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hm3JodBR-vs)
You messed it up!
I don't wanna go out, I want to stay in, get things done...
Take many psychedelics in your free time
No such thing as too much of a good thing.
Typing it at all is way too much.
sammichs to be that way
RIP Avicii 
Those are nothing compared to [Dopesmoker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hIw7oeZKpZc)
Or random Dream Theater.
Dad had it on record. that song took up one entire side iirc.
Uh what?

Cover bands maybe but that is not the norm
Otherwise.

Source: have been in a couple touring bands, albeit in Canada maybe it’s different where you’re from
Or 3 1h sets with 2 30min breaks.
hmm. I saw them like 3 or 4 years ago I think and all they had was an electric guitar, a bass, a keyboardist. I dont think they had a drummer even.

But they pretty much just went back and forth doing jam solos on their instruments for nearly two hours straight, no electronica at all. It was one of the greatest things I have ever seen but that may have been the mushrooms and MDMA
I was sure he was done after Jack's mannequin and having his daughter. everything in transit was my high school jam
So many of Gilmour's guitar solos get a free pass from me.  That dude knows how to pack a whole dollop of emotion into his notes.
Watermelon in Eastern Hay by Frank Zappa is also 8 minutes of pure magic
I always hated how the Sultans of Swing solo cuts iff so abruptly at the end. One time a DJ began talking right as the solo hit and I was like, "dude what in the fuck are you doing?!"
Mark’s outro solo in Tunnel of Love is excellent as well
There’s a live [version ](https://youtu.be/8Pa9x9fZBtY)  of Sultans of Swing that’s 10 minutes long from their concert at the Alchemy that I actually prefer to the original because Knopfler is so fucking good live
Shoot - what about Knopfler’s 5 minute guitar solo in Telegraph Road? God he is incredible in that whole song !
Those are both pretty succinct though 
Also Buck Dharmas solo in the live version of Veteran of the Psychic Wars is amazing.
Carlos Santana also has some great solos. 
Gilmour is a God.
Everytime that I listen to a Pink Floyd song, I'm reminded of what do crazy depressed paranoid aphasic people feel.
The comfortably numb solo came to mind immediately when I was thinking of long solos pulled off well
The end solo to Boston's Hitch A Ride is up there as well.
i would listen to an album of purely gilmour solos for hours, to be quite honest. 
Purple Rain is up there as my favorite guitar solo.
Those were the first two I thought of too. And I think what's so great is how melodic they are. When either one of them plays something on guitar I don't really care how long it is because it's not just showing off, it's actually contributing to and following the theme of the song no different than if someone was singing. 
The Prince solo in the [Rock and Roll Hall of Fame George Harrison Tribue](https://youtu.be/6SFNW5F8K9Y) ... when I first realized what an amazing musician he was
Honestly, especially drums. Drum solos have never been fun for me, since it tends to be a lot of the same "" note"" over and over 
>	I don’t need to watch people ~~wank it on stage~~ play a musical instrument
Girrrrlll you thought he was a mannnn but he was a muffinnn

I'm pretty sure the version I like best is off of Bongo Fury where he's with Captain Beefheart. 
But being a whole different song doesn't mean the solos are going to inherently be good.
to pretty much everything. 
It’s more a specific section of jazz
Yeah. I knew what I was getting into. I knew. 
It’s what modal jazz is, not all jazz. Just for whatever reason modal jazz (and the related genres) is almost the only form of jazz that survived past the 40s. I would assume the reason is that people much prefer rock and rock derivatives now for the structured storytelling and go to jazz for improvisation.
Reece’s Pieces. They laid them on the floor from outside the studio, all the way up to his cymbals. By the time he ate his last Pieces, too late, history was born. 
They basically jammed with him and then mixed out the non-Ringo instruments.
He didn't know it was for a solo. Just recorded it thinking it would accompany instruments. 
Thanks for replying. Im imagining somewhat of a Govt Mule sound in a way... hippies and metal seems odd and makes perfect sense, simultaneously. 
I forget bands like these even make records.
I'd be happy to see them again, if that makes sense. 
I guess it's all about the live show for me. 
I used to play music.  I know what you're describing, sometimes our songs would take on a different feel, or someone would come in with a new rhythm, and the whole song would change.  Sometimes even throwing a new chord change in the mix, or just sitting on one chord and letting a new progression start up...

I guess that's telling me I didn't really appreciate how in tune we all were with each other!  That was some of the most fun I'd ever had, and the only audience was the four or five of us in that studio :)
> able too 

There's a correlation between people who make shitty youtube-tier comments and the inability to write basic sentences.
Found the guy who loves Drum Solos, everybody. 

Relax, man. Shit you need a hug?
I actually really liked it. There was enough change in it to keep my interest throughout the whole thing. 
Definitely not boring, but as a huge Rush fan I'd much rather see them take that ten minutes and work some improvisation into their songs. Like the way all three of them are going nuts during the Freewill solo - do that more often!

(But they're retired now, so moot point. Who's got my Umph ticket?)
I would respect your opinion, but you just said Neil Peart, the fucking drummer of Rush, who's spent his life studying with Buddy Rich, is "jerking" more than 2 fucks on drum sets just putting in notes to fill time.

Peart obviously composes his solos and every note, change has a meaning and is worth paying attention too.


Watch one of his solos from recently, hes even better.
dude easy. Peart is great, but that solo is boring for non-drummers. There are technically amazing things that drummers hear and say “oh man his muscle memory is insane to pull that fill off like that” or his ability to incorporate melodies, etc. 

But they are not “entertaining” drum solos for the majority of people. Listen to how silent the crowd is the majority of the time. 
Agreed.  As an addendum, Buddy Rich has played an entire drum solo just on his snare.  Crazy display of talent?  Absolutely.  Entertaining?  Not particularly.
Set and setting plays a huge role in any art piece, that's not what I'm arguing here.

Claiming ones a better form of art and discrediting another, based off of "I've done this before" is purely wrong.

Buddy Rich didn't jerk off, he spent his entire fucking life, living, breathing, eating drums.  I LOVE THAT SHIT, it should be appreciated for what it is, you may not like it more than a jam in the park, but I guarantee that Buddy Rich studied wayy more for his solos.
I wasn't discrediting.  I'm just saying not everyone enjoys those solos despite their musicality.
Was referring back to OPs comment with that one, I see you take a neutral stance.

Not everyone will fancy a genre, but when the performer prepares as much as these guys, they deserve the respect.

I just wanted to make sure that my point got across.
It's fine you have your own preference, some people want to dance and someone people want to be bloen away by technique (hence the solo being played at a Prog Rock show, and the jam being in a park).

However it bothers me seeing people write "coming from a drummer" without paying any respect to the history of drumming and in this case drum solos. At this point you might as well be a bassist, sorry to be gatekeeping, but this is the one thing Ive put so much passion into. Drums have had to fight for a right to play on stage and is constantly under battle from EDM and drum machines. We still need to love the human element inside the drummer, which very well comes out during solos.
> They're touring for their 40th anniversary, you might be able to catch them.

Holy shit so glad you put this on my radar. The last ~10 times I've checked their dates they've only been touring in Europe. 
Kick off and start a fight lol. At a Toto gig? Unlikely mate, chill.
It's just my hang up. The age range of fans who were properly rocking out was amazing. I thought they would be for an older audience, which they were I suppose, but quite a few youngsters getting their groove on.
I think it comes down to how much of a performer the player is and how much they want to shine.
The crescendo of an opera disagrees on that emotional level you're talking about. 
Case in point dude. Do you have any idea how much emotion an all drum Ewe funeral dance brings out of the participants? Do you think Pansori or Peking opera doesn't invoke emotion? Do you think Indonesians just sit around bored when they hear Javanese and Balinese gamelan pieces? The list goes on and on. You weren't raised to consciously comprehend the emotional value of rhythm. A lot of other people in the world were.

Also, studies have shown that rhythm can bring out the same emotional response as melody across all cultures, even if we don't realize it. [Here’s one for you](http://www.pnas.org/content/110/1/70) (movement = rhythm in this study).
That was incredible. Thanks for sharing!
Fascinating article
> And, in a move that forever changed the rock-concert business, [band manager Peter Grant] forced promoters to give the band 90 percent of the gate—take it or leave it. They took it.

That guy has cost me so much money.
Great read!
Are there any articles like this for other bands ? Like Elton John or David Bowie??
Haha that's awesome. Get it out and put it on again. Happy Saturday. 
I think it depends on the audience and their expectations. 

If you see a hard rock concert, you’ll probably expect a drum solo at some point. 

If you go to a jazz gig, you’ll get a shit load of solos. 

There is also the difference between drum solos and solo drums.   Latin music often has long stretches of just drums and percussion but it isn’t soloing as much as grooving.  


Where most people go wrong with solos of any instrument is when it just starts sounding like you're doing practice techniques as fast as possible. Nobody gives a shit that you can paradiddle and tom roll at the speed of sound. Well, maybe some do. But I find it to be a snooze cruise when people do that.
Yup, many people are. 
Schizo doesn't mean "two"

Edit: I'm not wrong

Edit 2: Googled it. It's a The Who thing. Nice pun. Bring on those downvotes I suppose.
quadrophrenia
u/seitaswagger
very nice
Is it me, for a moment?
Rock musicians competing for dominance?
Hyeeeeaap hyeap hyeap hyeap. Here girl!


...nothin, g dang it. 
Neat.
Yes there is. It's in the meaning of "too much."
My obesity begs to differ
Not always true. Source: Heroin
Thick as a Brick and Tubular Bells take up 2 sides.
Playing actual show venues it's not like that but all the bars I played in over the years that's exactly how it was set up. A few places it was actually 90 min sets with 20 min breaks. We did lots of solos and extended alot of songs for those places haha


Edit: played in both original and cover bands
No drummer? That’s electronica.
No! Glass Passenger and People And Things are both JM, then a self titled album followed by Zombies on Broadway. He's dropped some info at some concerts that our sweet man has finished writing the next album
Pigs goes in there for Gilmour emotion....also have to give a nod to fade to black outtro
Absolutely. One of the few who can go on and on, while simultaneously not sounding pretentious and adding so much color to the song. I love his guitar work in Dogs
Can you think of one of his solos that doesn't? :)
I swear the outro on Sheep is what got me into playing guitar.
You should check out the band "Marillion". They have a pretty good guitarist who knows how to put the feeling in his solos. Easter, Sugarmice, and Neverland come to mind as solo highlights
I’ll jump on the Gilmour love train...

I agree on him packing emotion into his notes...it’s not just the great selection of notes, it’s the timing of them. And he’ll work his way up to a pivotal note so beautifully, and sometimes lean into it and drag it out for just the right amount of time.

When I first heard Dark Side of the Moon and the transition of “On the Run” to “Time” it changed the way I listened to music from that point on
Absolutely, along with Black Napkins. And it is absolutely gut wrenching to watch Dweezil play Watermelon. He seems to cry every single time. 
Had not heard the song until your comment, and I had to say thank you for sharing it, it’s gorgeous! 
Joe's Garage is an album full of magic. 
Big fan of Sexual Harassment in the Workplace too.  That is such a great instrumental tune. 
Yes!  It is as much a part of the song as the lyrics!
Water of Love?
That's one of my favorite live performances by anyone. I love that part in around 6 minutes in when they bring things down a bit and you can hear the PA buzzing a little, it just sounds like a perfect summer night condensed into sound form. I haven't listened to the album cut on purpose since discovering the live at Pompeii version. 
Classic '80s style: the blazer with rolled-up sleeves. It was usually the keyboardist, though - rare to see a guitarist doing it.


That’s one of my favorite live albums, he absolutely shreds on it.
That song's like 14 minutes long and I'm still always surprised when it finishes
I like the part is Sultans where the lyrics are "He doesn't want to make it (his guitar) cry or sing" in reference to George Harrison and Eric Clapton's "While My Guitar Gently Weeps", Knopfler briefly bends his notes like in the Beatle's song. Honestly Knopfler is low-key showing off that whole song.
Agreed.  And I’m a drummer.
Ever seen Danny Carey play live? That man can solo any time he wants. His drumming is a bit different than most though...
Drums look a lot better than they sound, imo. 
I get bored looking, too. 5 minute bathroom break 
Modal jazz didn't introduce long winded, turn-taking soloing if that's what you're claiming. Bop and hard bop in a way fits that bill more accurately than modal jazz does.

Also, I would consider bop to be much more rock oriented than modal jazz, since bop very much stays on the beat the same way rock music generally does.
>for whatever reason modal jazz is almost the only form of jazz that survived past the 40s

Two words: Miles Davis.
Oooh! Piece of candy!
Objection, your honour. We don't have Reece's Pieces in England.
No, he knew it was a solo, they just had to convince him to do it.

Source:  Beatles Anthology sitting five feet from me.
Oh totally. After they released Mantis in 2008, I haven't kept up with their album releases except for every few years after they release an album haha. I'm one or two behind. But yeah in my humble opinion, they're like a top 3 live band in the world. I mean they have toured at least half of every year for the past 15 or so years.
Well hey, how about turning that "used to" back into a "still do"! Get back on the axe/seat. I believe in you!
The Freewill solo is incredibly fun
I hope you get to see them. Obviously without having to kick any children lol.
http://www.stevelukather.com/tour/2018/40-trips-around-the-sun-world-tour.aspx

Just found this.
If you can find me a drum solo that makes people feel the way any pink floyd solo can, I'll concede. 
Let's put it this way. There's a reason pink floyd and the beatles took over the world and not anything you listed there. Just sayin. 

I completely appreciate what drums and rhythm can do, but they just work better as group instrument, not a solo one. It's essentially a musical metronome for everyone involved. 
Once again, you're imposing western ideas of what music is on the entire world, not just the countries you've lived in or visited for a few days to weeks. Pink Floyd and The Beatles did not take over the entire planet, just the west and heavily westernized countries - and even the latter still appreciates their traditional music. Live in Africa to study the Yoruba for your dissertation and you'll see what I mean. I'll give you a hint: they don't listen to The Beatles.

Tribes in the middle of nowhere without electricity that you probably didn't know existed until I named them find rhythm beautiful because they were raised to. They grow up playing what I could best describe as rhythmic nursery rhymes. It's common fucking sense that they would prioritize complex drumming. Do you think you wouldn't have done the same if you were raised there?

Try listening to a single Akan drumming track and you'll hear that a large number of drums played in different patterns creates rhythms just as complex as melodies can be if you consider the fact that rhythms can be polyphonic. That study that you didn't understand or just ignored drives that point home.
*woosh*
One of my favorite albums ever. Give it a listen if you get a chance
Can you help me take two strokes off my swing?
I feel like a Meeseeks should have known this...
Take your shaming like a man.
It does mean two but it doesn’t mean two personalities. Means a mind split into two which is a misnomer because again... it’s not multiple personalities. 
I upvote you for your edits 
Good man, admits when he’s wrong. We’ll let it slide this time.
My experience as well, cover band for 10 years. 
That’s exactly what makes Gilmour so amazing! While he doesn’t play at the same intensity or speed as a thrash metal or hard rock player does, his guitar solos are a melodic work of art that very few guitar players will ever have. He’s got that perfect balance of adding without being cocky
I was so surprised when I heard the animals album. I think it's got such a better sound then all of their other albums yet I never hear it mentioned by anyone other than fans. I figure it should've gained some popularity.
You just referred to a guitar solo sounding pretentious and then I realized that I knew exactly what you meant. 
Hahaha at this risk of sounding just terrible as a fan, I think some of his later albums feel a bit lesser in their weight, even the solos :(

Edit:  Only a bit though ^Sorry ^Mr ^Gilmour
for the curious:

https://youtu.be/3-oJt_5JvV4?t=8m06s

Apparently Gilmour let roger waters play the outro to sheep as a compromise for Gilmour playing bass on Pigs(three different ones) and  dogs...
Definitely a highlight of the last tour, along with Outside Now. 

This tour, the razor jingle is the best.
I love how random all these songs sound out of context. 

"Ya the 13 minute outro in *Juvenile Diabetes in a Hamster* brings tears to my eyes"
I have and would still say drum solos are boring and am a drummer
tbf danny has a bigger kit than nearly anybody, lot easier to make a drum solo interesting when you have a 30+ piece kit, compared to most kits that are ~10 pieces
I’m claiming modal is what truly made jazz into the “improv” music form that it is today.
Read that in his voice. 
Only to see how it sounded with accompaniment in at least one of the seven takes. It might have been kept if they liked it, it might have always intended to be scrapped, but it certainly had nothing to do with "tricking Ringo into it." 

>*But because of this medley I said, "Well, a token solo?" and [Ringo] really dug his heels in and didn't want to do it. But after a little bit of gentle persuasion I said, "Yeah, just do that, it wouldn't be Buddy Rich gone mad," because I think that's what he didn't want to do.*

\- Paul McCartney

>*The thing that always amused me was how much persuasion it took to get Ringo to play that solo. Usually, you have to try to talk drummers out of doing solos! [laughs] He didn't want to do it, but everybody said, 'No, no, it'll be fantastic!' So he gave in – and turned in a bloody marvelous performance!*

>*It took a while to get right, and I think Paul helped with some ideas, but it's fantastic. I always want to hear more – that's how good it is. It's so musical, it's not just a drummer going off.*

\- Geoff Emerick.
But the anthology version of The End has other instruments over the drum solo.
Yeah you right. I got confused cause he actually did record it alongside instruments tho
Fallacy. You talked about emotional resonance from music involving percussion I presented an example. There is a huge demographic of people who are moved more deeply from an operas' crescendo than a pink Floyd solo. That doesn't mean pink Floyd is absolutely bad or opera is absolutely good. Music is subjective to each listener. 
But there's a reason not even 5 percent of the population listens to opera, even on a regular basis. Whether you like to admit it or not, some things just resonate with most humans and drum solos are not that.
I deserve this.
How do you think he does it? 
Ahhhh Can doooo! Im Mr Meseeks, look at me!
TIL, "schizo" comes from a latinized Greek word that means to comb, to split or to separate. Hence schizophrenia: split mind.
It's my favourite...not a popular opinion though.
Normally I agree, but [this](https://youtu.be/tRmdQhxEhlk)
isn't your average drum solo.
Lol. "To be fair, Usain Bolt has longer legs than most. Easier to be the fastest man on earth when you have long legs."

Basically, he has a huge kit because he is talented enough to use it effectively.
Great knowledge! It's been years since I've seen anthology, I thought they just took the other instruments out of the mix. 
You're a better man than me.

*nods admiringly and smushes a rotten tomato carefully across forehead*
I like you. 
I don't know
You’re not op
Yup but again, not multiple personalities! Really common misconception about it. 
But it's not split brain, that's a term for a different neurological condition.
Still boring
To each their own. I also like straight percussion music.
Whose forehead
No one knows what it's like

To be the bad man

To be the sad man
What makes him so good?
Does it really matter?

*smokes angrily*
Someone explain to me how sense of smell makes someone good at pinball!!!
