Can we seriously stop with the Battle Royale threads?
I don't want to offend anyone but I'm being serious. I remember the occasional, "Hey, BOTW should get a Battle Royale mode last year but now its 10 times worse. I've seen suggestions like Splatoon Battle Royale to even Smash Bros Battle Royale (sorry, what?) almost every day and it doesn't stop.

 Godamn, its getting absurd. I get it, its the trendy thing right now but we seriously got to think about what you guys are suggesting before you post. Not everything has to have a Battle Royale mode. Its like the " everything should be Open World" issue we had before. 

Now, I know this post alone won't stop people from posting their ideas but please think before you post. Sorry for the rant.


I think all the threads should be put together and then all dropped into the same battlemap so they can fight it out and we can finally find out which is the most likely. 
Can someone comment some links to any of those threads? 
I remember when "MOBA" was the thing everyone needed.  
(tbg I actually do agree a Nintendo MOBA-like could be very interesting, but I don't expect it will happen)  

.  

Asking for a lot of Battle royale I don't get tho...  
Like, with Nintendo's track record of online, how the fuck do you expect them to handle a Battle Royale game?
I must not lurk here often enough, or browse thoroughly enough, because I haven't seen a single one.
Some of these suggestions are so bad. I saw that Smash Bros Battle Royale and couldn't believe my eyes.
Animal crossing battle royale please
anyone else waiting for the 1-2 switch battle Royale 
Which threads are you referring to? Other than the one related to that one Battle Royal game that a lot of people are excited for? 
There's been battle royale posts? I didn't notice. Must be that life I have that doesn't keep me on Reddit complaining all the time.
Stardew Valley battle Royale. 
Create a problem, where there is no problem
Lol you probably just created a subreddit meme.
Stop with the hyperbole. The issue isn't that serious that we need this thread.
This reddit in a nutshell:

Sees two posts in the last day about something

“OMG CAN WE STOP POSTING THIS IT’S OBNOXIOUS!!!”

I don’t see what the big deal is. I have literally only seen one in the past two days pop up. It’s not protruding anything. And some of these ideas deadass sound awesome, like the Breath of the Wild one or Splatoon. I’ll admit, some are stupid, like smash. I don’t know how that would work fluently without trouble, but other than that, there’s no reason to be whining about these ideas just because there’s an influx of them. If people want it let them have it. I remember years of whining for a new 3D open world mario and we finally got it and it was executed tremendously. Stop pushing other people’s idead to the side for the sake of your own self perception of games on the Switch.
Labo Battle Royale when?
I usually just avoid threads I don’t like, especially when they’re not that frequent. 
Can we seriously stop with the  "can we seriously stop" threads? 
Fan conjecture is one of the main components of community discussion.  Having an opinion about someone else's repeated suggestions to the point that you need to start a discussion about that ... I mean, if you don't have anything to say ... 
Can we hold a battle royale about battle royale threads?
You know what needs a battle Royale mode?  Witcher 3./s
The most annoying of all threads on r/nintendoswitch are the gatekeeping threads, where people tell other people what not to post.

That's what the downvote button is for. Not going to tell you to stop posting these (like you are), just want to make you very clear how stupidly hypocritical it is.
A Snipperclips Battle Royale would be good.
Oh boy can't wait for E3 this year!

Breath of the wild Battle Royale dlc

Mario Odyssey Battle Royale update

Pokemon switch battle royale

Super smash brothers switch with a battle royale mode

Metroid Prime 4 royale
I'm on reddit basically all day, and I havent seen anything really mentioning battle royal...in other places like for RDR2 or the new COD but not here, all I've seen here recently is LABO and indie game stuff.
1-2-Switch Battle Royale when
This post should get a battle royale mode.
we already got kirby Battle Royale the rest will follow... 
Relax, some people genuinely want those things. It's a little disrespectful to tell them to think before they post when they genuinely think it's a good idea. You don't have to agree and you can even mention that in the comments, but they should be free to talk about their excitement with like-minded individuals without being shamed.
I’d just like to see a port of Fortnite on the Switch.  That’s all I have to say on the topic.
If this is something you take seriously enough to make a big post like that you need to seriously put your life into perspective. Don’t worry about it so much it’s just games
Who cares? Just hit downvote if you don’t like a certain post, it’s there for a reason.
Just port Fortnite onto the Switch and call it a day
Battle Royale would have been a good subtitle for Smash Bros before the genre itself exploded.
when is labo battle royale
But....this is a Battle Royale thread.  
Amen.
If we can’t get a stop to Wii U port begging threads then why would we stop Battle Royale begging threads? Switch is the ultimate begging system.
I liked The Hunger games. I don't want every movie to be like the Hunger games. I feel the same about games.
If you’re getting triggered this hard over this, you may want to evaluate things and figure out what is truly bothering you. It’s unhealthy to to be upset over the opinion of others regarding a game mode for a video game. Hope you feel better...
Only thing worse than a battle Royale post is a post whining about battle Royale posts
Bomberman battle Royale?
They added motorcycles for a reason
I think you're greatly misunderstanding the tone behind these posts, it's a meme. 
I havent seen any from this sub the other subs that I am part of like pcgaming or xboxone I think has a fair mix of BR stuff and other stuff.
What the fuck ? I haven't seen a single br post here and i do visit here daily. Are you sure op that you aren't just being pissed off for the sake of being pissed off ?
Battle Royale labo.
But seriously, I’ve been saying since ocarina of time that they should make a Hyrule Battle Royals. Everyone has swords bombs and bows. Would be sweet. ;)
> please think before you post

Yeah good luck with having that message sink in on Reddit. Bigger chance of a 50% off sale on BoTW and SMO on the eShop this summer.
"can we seriously stop with the battle royale threads" as he makes another 🤣🤣🤣
WWE battle royal Battle Royale
Zelda is the only one that seems fun tbh. Finding weapons and maybe places to get runes would be fun.
Gaming trends ruin innovation
Battle royal is boring I don’t even know why it’s so popular. I’ll stick with my tdm / ctf kinda games. 
Battle Royale is flavor of the month. It will be gone in a month, so for now there's little to do but wait it out until the hypothetical mob dies down.
e.t battle royale when
I agree. I also think it’d be nice to get Fortnite on the switch. 
Let me get that All Stars Battle Royale port.
So you don’t want Animal Crossing Battle Royale?
Why not just hope pubg or fortnite hit up the switch.
PUBG on my phone is the most I could ever want out of this genre. 
How about this?  100 Marios drop onto an island from a plane...
Smash Battle Royale sounds kind of awesome to be honest. Imagine full roster from all Smash games, unlocking more characters as you play with the loot drops being more abilities (you start with jabs only) and healing items reduce your %. A Nintendo developed Battle Royale could be pretty freaking awesome, or really trash.
I just want an actual Battle Royale game. Adaptation of the book/movie, or just inspired. Single player campaign. You start with a random bag of gear which could be good or bad. Is that really too much to ask?  
Haha yeah I too would love to see Nintendo Battle Royale! Thanks OP!
I thought the BotW Battle Royale with 99 Bokoblin players vs one Link player sounded funny.
Fortnite on Switch would be lovely however.
I wish there was a way for me to vote on posts in a subreddit that I thought were beneficial or not.  I also wish Nintendo would hurry up with Ice Climbers Battle Royal.
Or any port begging threads TBH. 
All this because Someone made a fake post saying a super Mario themed skin of fortnite was coming to switch. And also because ninja said in a interview that it may be coming to switch everyone freaks out
I Think a Battle Royal SSB sounds very cool but as a niche mode maybe. im more for adventure and missions like melee 
Pikmin battle Royale where you can customize your pikmin. Imagine a pikmin with a gun. 
Battle royale is so boring tho. This is just like when mobas was popular then everything should be a moba. After it was hero shooters and now battle royale.
When MMOs were popular there were a large crowd of people syaing Pokemon should be an MMO, when Breath of the Wild came out a huge chunk of people decided it should be open world, I can't wait for the mob of people who have now decided it should be a battle Royale.
>I remember the occasional, "Hey, BOTW should get a Battle Royale mode last year but now its 10 times worse.

You didn’t close the quote!

[Relevant xkcd.](https://xkcd.com/859/)
You think this is a "rant" ? You new to the internet?
Troll and I battle royale or riot
But it would totally work in Mario Rabbids
I love your idea for a Splatoon Battle Royale mode! That would be perfect.
I'm shocked we still don't have a suggestions thread. It's not like the mods don't know about the problem. Maybe if you strip down those threads, the activity posts here drop significantly. 

That being said, Battle-Royale genre is only about to get worse tbh... Once AAA devs try to get a slice of that pie that EpicGames/PUBG Devs have been hogging. 

Inb4 Anthem Battle-Royale, Star Wars Battle-Royale, Watch Dogs 3 Battle-Royale, RDR2 Battle royale. 

EA will certainly not let the BR 'craze' slip by without a sloppy attempt to cash grab some lingerers. Ubisoft and Rockstar likely won't let it pass either. 

It'll likely get to the point where BR will get milked so damn dry none of us can even imagine how bad it'll get. I'm prepared for a shitstorm. I *highly* doubt a lot of the AAA devs who follow lootbox/microtransaction in a $60 single-player game are going to think twice about how annoyed people are with battle-royale already. 
Nintendo should make a Nintendo Switch Battle Royale subreddit.
Just saying wouldn't a Smash Bros Battle Royale just be Smash Run?
If only Super Smash bros had a flight SIM mode.
Honestly it’s pretty comical to me how many people complained about EA handling Battlefront but continue to scream about how great Fortnite is whilst dropping massive amounts of dollars on “Limited Edition for today only” this or that. That whole model sucks. And just seeing all the Battle Royale comments makes me laugh. 
“Mario odyssey should get a battle royale dlc mode” 😞😐
It’ll end soon. Then you’ll have “Why does every game need to have a tacked on Battle Royale mode?” threads in 2019. 
The beautiful thing about Nintendo is that they don’t need Battle Royale modes, they’re innovative enough as it is. Let them redefine video games, not become part of a trend.
Personally... BR is stupid. I don’t get why so many people like it. 

I’m not saying people shouldn’t enjoy it. But I don’t get the draw. Probably because I love BOTW and Monster Hunter so much. 
It's the new hot fad. Not long ago it was MOBAs. Now it's battle royales. It hasn't gotten any less obnoxious. 
Coming soon to a Switch near you, "Battle Royale: Battle Royale and Knuckles."
We need Nintendogs Battle Royale
I agree, I can't stand these trends and these "everything should be (insert style)". The open world example you made is perfect. I got jumped on for saying that linear games, at this point in time, are better for narratives and emotional stories than open world games. That'll change but it's true right now. Some games have been ruined by going open world and the same will happen with everything going Battle Royale, not to mention how everyone, in a year will be asking "god, why are there so many BR games?"  
  
These trends slow the industry down because every developer has to waste at least a year or three making their version of the current trendy concept and then they all just end up feeling the same anyway.  
  
We need a Tetris Battle Royale! By the way how long until someone suggests Metroid Royale?
Nobody has even suggested any good ones. Like mario + minions battle royale & knuckles.
Don't worry. Fortnite Battle Royale on the Switch is just a matter of time. :)
Zelda would be cool

Splatoon? Why?

Smash? What are you thinking?
Yeah lets get more port/remaster threads
Yeah just bring fortnite to the switch already!
coming soon: Battle Royale: Battle Royale.  Double the Royale!
Why would someone be offended?
This the first thread i have seen about battle royale on this subreddit...
Unrelated to this but reading the comments it astounds me there are people still arguing that Smash isnt a fighting game. What the hell is it then? And why is Melee and Sm4sh still allowed in fighting game tourneys if they arnt fighting games?
its sicks me how ppl thinks now that battle royal mode refers exclusive to a fortnite/pubg type/style of matches...
for example if splatoon had a free for all mode that will be a battle royal too.
smash free for all IS a BRoyal
Normie Royal
Its reddit..
It's like a new wave of gamers aka kids joined the fold and wasn't here to experience the "every game has zombies, open world, Minecraft? etc." And don't understand trends don't forcibly change a franchise identity or consistency.

Like yeah Battle Royale are fun but serious at this rate people will say the upcoming Pokemon game sucks because no Battle Royale mode. Aside from games locked behind massive microtransaction pay walls, the next disgusting thing is a game that just basically bootlegs and copies off of another. Like Paladins. I mean did you even watch Dunkeys Paladins video? I can't even tell if he's talking about PUBG, Fortnite, Paladins
Personally I dislike "trends" with video games. I want them to be unique.  
They have many Open World Crafting Survival games, MOBAs, Modern Military Shooters, and now Battle Royale.  
I hope Nintendo doesn't hop on the trend, because they're well known to be different.
So what you’re saying is is that I shouldn’t expect a Funky Royale mode in every game that hasn’t come out yet?
I think there should be a Battle Royale of Battle Royale threads to see who wins. /s

But seriously though I’m just sick of Battle Royale overall. Now there are rumors that the next CoD and Battlefield will have a Battle Royale mode. 
Basic people ask basic questions about the things they’re most currently and basically enjoying. It can only be stopped through a Reddit purge. 
Snipperclips Battle Royale:
100 pairs of scissors
1 piece of paper
The shapes
Keep
Shrinking
And

Begin
Personally, I wish we could stop with these insipid and whiny "can we stop with" threads. Especially when you're crying about something that isn't actually a problem.
No u
No, and I'll tell you why :

It is completely and entirely perplexing that Fornite BR isn't on Switch yet. It's literally on *every other relevant platform*, and we know that it could run on Switch. So why isn't it there? The Switch could use more online competitive games, it could definitely use more ftp games, and frankly it seems strange that last year's most popular, money making console doesn't have this year's most popular, money making game. The Switch's release calendar has been pretty barren this past quarter, securing Fornite should have been a priority. 
This reminds me of a Shinya Takahashi quote from a while back. Takahashi is the operations manager at Nintendo.

>Interviewer: Can the "open world" recipe apply to other Nintendo licenses than "Zelda"?

>Takahashi: For us, the goal is not to make absolutely a game in this direction, but to offer entertainment that is in affinity with the license to which it is attached. That is to say, if we have another license than Zelda and we have an idea that an open world is relevant, of course we will not refrain from doing so. But we will not redo a type of game just for the sake of redoing this type of game. There must be consistency in development.

He was talking about open world but it applies here, too. They won't slap battle royale on something unless the idea seems relevant, and there's consistency in development. They will not redo a type of game for the sake of doing it.
Smashrun was a battle royal.. kinda
Release more BR games and dilute quality games from releasing.
We should start thinking if we should not if we could lol
I'd rather hear about BR's than the 1000 ports that have been on PC for 3 years that this subs thinks is a good business plan for Nintendo instead of first party games or big time third party games that actually release at the same time as all the other systems.
Just so any of you had no idea, PUBG and Fortnite were released to mobile. Go check it out.
BOTW battle royale would be pretty dope tho. 
Fucking Kids...
funny non-related anecdote, path of exile tried to mock battle royale with an april's fool surprise done in a day's work and it ended up being better than 3-month planned content
You could just not open or read those threads and just move on. Just because you don't want them, doesn't mean you speak for the community. Move on, ignore the posts.
There is a lot of content in this sub which should not show as often, or needs a mega thread. Daily question thread is a joke with the same things getting answered day after day.


I think the battle royale stuff is solely because Nintendo Switch needs one. Many could argue the need of a battle royale game on the switch but it is pretty ridiculous that phones have them and run them well, and Switch is left out.


Then there’s the internet infrastructure crap with Nintendo. This shouldn’t be a reveal at E3 or left until summer. It should have been out half a year ago. I’m sure this is one of the main excuses we have yet to see a battle royale, which just makes the burn worse.
We need a /r/NintendoSwitch Battle Royale so the winner can get rid of all the Battle Royale posts.
I'm on this subreddit pretty much everyday and haven't seen a post about battle Royale suggestions...
COD BR
Nintendo is pretty dumb for not doing one with splatoon yet. I would actually buy S2 if they added it.
I think all random speculation or “Nintendo should” or “Dear Nintendo” or “How likely are we to get...?” threads should die terrible deaths.
Yes everything should be open world don't judge me on my taste!
I just want Fortnite on Switch. I don’t care about getting any other kind of Battle Royal
I visit this sub daily and have yet to see one
Whatever we think of these threads a lot of publishers will be adding battle royale modes to games. Truth is though most BR fans will stick with fortnite and PUBG. The one I'd like to see is Metroid Prime Battle Royale but Nintendo are hardly the publisher most likely to be swung by trends. Get Fortnite on Switch and BR fans will be happy.
Battle royale is just a slower version of ffa gameplay.
How will a Splatoon Battle Royale even work?
Stardew Valley Battle Royale when?
OK but Starfox Assault rerelease with added battle royale mode.
What the hell are you talking about?
I haven't seen a single one.. 
All I want is halo 6 Battle Royale on the PC. That is the only game I would play it. Don't like the building in granite and I think the fights would be more interesting with shields.
Echoing some of the other comments in that I've literally never seen a single thread like that on this sub (maybe spend less time browsing new?), but now you've introduced the idea of a Splatoon BR mode into my brain, and it's all I want.
Splatoon Battle Royale actually sounds badass 
Hush Up I want ARMS Battle Royale ok
Where does this Battle Royale meme come from anyway?
At least these are just fantasy. The *reality* for me is slightly worse.

I love my Switch, don't get me wrong, but if every hyped release is going to be yet *another* retro pixel art rouge-like/lite indie game then I'm just going to sell the fucking thing. But no one complains about *that* trend.
If smash battle royale gets announced I’ve clearly failed my one goal
Or you could just downvote and move on. 

There's literally nothing I want less than battle royale games but why would the presence of threads bother you. I took a look and they are all low karma threads anyway, no where near the front page so unless you go looking for them they aren't even easy to stumble upon.
this is a battle royale thread
Ok, time for king of the hill!!
But what if the actual smash name was just smash 5 battle royale 
Well this is the first i'm hearing about this. Not saying I don't believe you but if that triggers you then you have a problem.
The thing is that botw world map is so good that people want to play a battle royale game mode on it. I know Nintendo will never do it. Someday someone might be able to hack it and make a game mode of it.
Hey, you know what? I think Nintendo is about getting something you didn't realize you want but desperatly miss after getting to know it. For example the open world in BotW. Or the on spot mechanics of Splatoon.

So I'll just say: if there would be a battle royal game by Nintendo - then in a way we did not expect and will enjoy.

But in reality they are working on something that is far more unique and far beyond stupid copies of Fortnite or PUBG. So just ignore people that shout out stupid ideas ;)
Splatoon battle royale is like the only one that would work
For real though, Breath of the Wild Battle Royale would be nuts.
...So who thinks Battle Royale should get a Switch port? ^^^^^/s
I’ve only seen one?
This is the first one i have seen????
Mario cart battle royal anyone? Nintendo plz make.
I for one think what the world needs is Nintendogs: Battle Royale
But can we get a battle royal on the Switch?
What Battle Royale posts? Can we instead stop posts like this complaining about a problem that doesn't exist?
when you spend too much time on a nintendo reddit refreshing new
The Labo threads are way more annoying than these honestly. 
Can we seriously stop with the games we want to play threats? 
But muh samus BR!

/S ^plz^dont^ban^me
Battle Royale Mario + Rabbids, make it happen!
Either all suggestion are allowed or none. At best you can add a quality requirement to sift out those unimaginative threads. Otherwise this selective censoring thing is unfair to those who want battle royale threads. I mean someone is upvoting them probably, how else would you notice them otherwise. This means enough peope are interesed in that kind of discussion. Just my outside perspective.
Speaking of that, Fortnite would be incredible for the switch.
[I made one of these threads. ](https://www.reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch/comments/8drd19/cod_and_battlefield_are_about_to_hop_on_the/?st=JG9NIBV4&sh=af5df039)  Sorry, but I did a search beforehand and didn’t see much. And nothing in light of the recent rumors/“announcements” that COD and BF were about to release BR modes. I understand the BR fatigue, but as someone who has only observed the craze from a distance, I’m personally not burned out on it only because I’ve barely played PUBG (and only downloaded Fortnite). I apologize if I created clutter to this sub, but I genuinely thought it had not been discussed much, and I just wanted to hear your guys’ thoughts on the possibility of Nintendo entering the BR arena (no pun intended). I didn’t know I was contributing to a worn out discussion. And yes, OP, you make valid points about “not everything should be BR, open world, etc.” Just pondering what Nintendo’s take on BR might be, should this fad be one that happens to stick around for more than a couple years. 
OK.
Can we get a 1 2 Switch Battle Royal mode
Everything has to be open world

Everything has to be multiplayer

Everything has to be battle royal

Whats next though?
Finally someone speaks out
You know what should get a Battle Royale? The switch. In the form of Fortnite. 

This is all 
“But please think before you post” you should have taken your own advice. You literally admitted the post won’t stop others from making battle royale post. But then you make this post. If you can’t even follow your own advice, why should others follow your advice?
I completely agree. I’ve never played a battle royale game, but over saturation too quickly is a very real problem. 
Yes, but only after everyone has milked it as much as WWII fps games, only to then move on to modern style fps games. 
We should get a Switch subreddit Battle Royale.
Reddit Battle Royale?
Give it time...just like MOBAs a few years ago, battle royal games are the new trend, but soon they're going to be everywhere and people will grow tired of them.

Zelda battle royal...yeah right, next they'll ask for Animal Crossing Battle royal, just go play Fortnite/PUBG/ArmA.
I just want Loot Boxes in games.
It's a fad and it's a shitty one. Let it pass 
Battle royal is a garbage mode anyway
Wait... this is a trend? That’s disgusting.

The less of that genre than what’s out there the better.
What about an open world Battle Royale 
Maaaaan, fuck Battle Royale. So overrated
How about stop getting excited for every mediocre indie game we get. Some are great, but others are just terrible
It's their opinion. 
All I want is Fortnite on the switch and I won't ever need another game again
Common plebs: "Plz nintendo gib us battle royale in every game!!!"

Me, an intellectual: "no, get out normies. Reee."
The switch does need a br game, i havent touched my switch in months, the switch is about to become a major failure if major games dont start showing up.  The systems about to massively be hacked, piracy is right around the corner, if we cant get games now there wont be much hope when that happens. 
You know what this thread needs, don't you?
1st Off its sadly not a trend its here to stay.

And second off Don't hate the game because of the community.

I will say Smash royale is legit retarded and splatoon is a bit iffy (Personally I want a splatoon deathmatch mode where there are no teams and you use water so its like temporary ink some reddit user made a post on it in high detail and I can link it if you want)

But think about botw royale
That shit would be awesome.
Smash bros battle royale would suck.
Wow smash BR?, that's actually a really good idea
I agree, mostly because Battle Royale games suck balls.
Why do you hate fun OP?
Or do you hate the people having fun?

Can we just have our normie meme and go about our day?
battle royale is just a random epenis battle where luck>ability... 
Lmao @ everyone arguing the semantics of what a battle royale game is... like, c’mon. We all know when someone says battle royale these days, it means a large scale last man standing type of game. Not Smash Bros, not tournament fights in MK. 
Especially cause every Battle Royale game so far (except Fortnite which is somewhat decent) has been objectively terrible.
Coming soon :  
Reddit : Battle Royale !!
Well memed, my friend.
We could even do this via a poll. That would be interesting
You just listed what QA does for Nintendo. 
SMASH BroS SWITCH!!
That is basically 2018 E3
So... smash bros battle royale?
No this is an original idea!!
I have literally never seen one. 
I have yet to see anyone suggest battle royale anything Nintendo. I think OP just gave more popularity to something they didn’t want to give more popularity to by complaining about it. 
To be fair, its more likely that its a r/gaming meme
I saw like *one* battle-royale post yesterday. 

But I see dozens of "I want XXXX in BoTW's engine!" posts. 

It gets bad because people have this unhealthy expectation with Pokémon now. As if it *isn't* Pokemon in BoTW's engine with heavy focus on exploration people are going to be upset. 
I’m on mobile but I will post some links:

https://reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch/comments/8drd19/cod_and_battlefield_are_about_to_hop_on_the/

https://reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch/comments/8dv6uh/call_of_duty_battle_royale_could_be_heading_to/

https://reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch/comments/8dqqp8/would_you_like_nintendo_to_incorporate_a_battle/
You would need to befriend every player first, send an email to Nintendo with the list of players you want to play with, wait for Nintendo to contact each player to make sure they want to play with you and after up to three weeks for approval you'd need input the Konami code 10 times in a row without making a mistake. If you mess up the code you would be banned for live and your Switch would explode the next time you take it out of the dock causing you to lose both of your hands.
Yea, remember the MOBA game based off the witcher franchise?
It didn't go very well
I remember was MMO then MOBA and now it’s Battle Royale wonder what’s next  
Well, using dedicated servers instead of underpowered consoles with awful consumer grade internet connection would be a start...

***

<rant> Seriously, if online functionality was free and would be available even after the consoles lifetime ended the peer2peer approach would be "fine"

But the combination of: 

- Soon^TM you will have to pay for it
- No dedicated servers
- Functionality and usability that is 10-15 years behind state-of-the-art
- Nintendo will randomly shut it down completely if their new console isn't selling the way they want it to (despite the fact that the cost for them to keep it active is as good as non existent)

is just rediculous </rant>
Chasing trends is a generally bad idea, especially if the market is already saturated, which the battle royale market is. By the time Nintendo got their idea up and running BR games will have already reached their cooling off period.
I would love a 15-30 minute round MOBA game for the switch. 
Same here
This is what we call one guy seeing something once and projecting it as happening all the time.
You are lucky
Because Smash is already a battle Royale? I think it would be kinda cool actually to have like 20 players on Hyrule temple with 1 stock.
On the topic of the whole “two good things together must make a better thing”, can I just say I don’t want the new pokemon to be “BOTW but pokemon!”  The pokemon series is for sure getting way too repetitive and samey but throwing pokemon into an open world the same way they did with LoZ is not the best solution. What we need is for the next pokemon to revolutionize like BotW did not just copy it. Okay that’s my little rant over now. 
https://youtu.be/f3l3E2EzJfs

Like this, but multiplayer.

SSB was 20 years ahead of everyone
I haven’t seen these threads genuinely asking for Nintendo’s franchises to get BR’s, but I did make a joke about Smash Battle Royale in some thread recently

Keep in mind the potential for sarcasm; I think talking about every game needing/getting a BR mode right now is just a meme for many people
Actually would be cool of the stage got smaller and smaller, you took damage outside
Got a link? Need to see this
Someone mentioned MOBA for Nintendo might not be a bad idea and if this is true Super Smash should have like a side game mode. But you're right Smash BR makes no sense. Splatoon BR doesn't sound like a terrible idea either but again it has its own identity. Nothing sucks as much as compromising that to simply cash in on what's trending or fotm.
You aren't thinking big enough. Imagine an open world crafting survival zombie mode moba mmo battle royal smash Bros for the ultimate outdated genre pandering.
BotW could work...but would need some modifications to do so. It has the basic characteristics necessary: resource gathering, multiple distinct weapons, and a battle system that could be easily modified for PvP.

The map might require some heavy modification, though. Maybe even a new map. It’s likely too big for matches of reasonable length, and there’s some places that might encourage camping more than would make for a good experience.
I honestly could see Smash Bros. Battle Royale working. Put everybody on a map similar to the map in Smash Run with a cloud slowly taking over the stage to keep you moving (If you are in the cloud the ground below you disappears effectively knocking you out of the stage). Could still have the stat upgrades like Smash Run had like higher attack, defense, etc. to keep things interesting. Don't know how well it would work but I mean I would rather play that any day over Smash Tour.

I'm part of the problem now... Oh no...
Its already in the game     
Trying to come ahead of tom nooks schemes, the tournaments, the multiplayer games on the island      
Its always been a battle royal for who can chill the most
The world isn't ready for that level of violence in any game.
I'm personally hoping for Golf Story Battle Royale
Last person to stop tugging off a cow wins
I'll murder pierre for being closed on Wednesday. 
You bet your ass he did.
He made his karma though. Mission accomplished!
I guess technically with enough cardboard and Switches you could make it yourself using the garage mode.
Robot Battle Royale
And the “am I the only one that *Insert relativly appreciated feature*” while we’re at it.
This *is* reddit
Seriously Stop Battle Royale
Praise Geraldo
I have to disagree. In my opinion, the most annoying of all threads are the ones that take completely obvious satire jokes and thinking that people actually want that or that it was serious in the first place 
If we can get it on mobile, surely a Switch version is viable.
That's what I'm thinking. If they got it on mobile, they can get it on Switch.
Ah shoot. You've exposed me. Time to admit that yes, I do want a Toycon RC car battle royale developed by FromSoftware :')
I just scrolled through the top 100 or so posts and not a single one of them mentions battle royal. I haven't seen any recently and I Reddit multiple times a day...
Now, let the music play!
To be fair the Vita was before everyone collectively forgot about it's existence.
Just like how Xbox fanboys beg for exclusives lol
WWE Battle Royale Rumble 
I disagree. It'll turn into a gamemode like any other mode. Like CTF or King of the Hill.
It's already been out for a few years, and CoD just announced they're replacing single player campaign with Battle Royale. Whether we like it or not, I think it's here to stay
Screw that gimme urban champion battle Royale.
I can hear the incessant “wahoos” as they fall from the plane now...
You can already play it. 8 players, 1 stock, fight until there's 1 left. There's also tournament mode for those who want more people to join.
A Pikmin with Doom Guy's BFG....yes please.
I love you both
I haven't played much of it but isn't Battlefront 2 a battle royale already? 
Activision is already following suit with Call of Duty and so is Rockstar. Activision is so into this idea that they don’t even have traditional single player campaign in the new game. It’s not even a new concept, this shit has been happening on steam for years and there’s tons on of Arma/Minecraft mods. No ones going to pay 60 dollars for a low quality BR with microtransactions. While I like it, I didn’t want to buy PUBG for 30. It’s like the open world games shit all over again. AAA devs always looking for the next trend to profit off of.
No you both
I’m not sure why someone downvoted your comment. Haha. You’re basically just saying exactly what will happen. 
They have a dumb opinion.
Major games are coming 
Go back and play your Vita, bro.
That should have been the April Fools this year!
>Coming soon :  
>Reddit : Battle Royale !!

... with cheese
I see 2 with 0 upvotes in New and that's it. Other than those, I have literally never saw a thread like what OP describes.
Same here. Not to mention, it's basically the switch's biggest missing piece, I would expect a lot of people wanting to talk about it.
Me neither. I’m just waiting patiently for “a battle royale” game. 
Like the streisand effect
I'm honestly not sure how you missed them. There have been text posts, meme posts, comments, etc. Granted, these have all been completely satire posts and comments because the feasibility of these game **actually** having battle royale is zero.

I thought it was pretty clear how much of a joke it was for these games to have BR modes.
>It gets bad because people have this unhealthy expectation with Pokémon now. As if it *isn't* Pokemon in BoTW's engine with heavy focus on exploration people are going to be upset. 

I already feel sorry for those morons. GameFreak will do what it has done for the past 20 years. Expecting anything beyond that is ludicrous.
All downvoted below zero lol
Damn third-party codes bricking my Switch.
Dw Nintendo customer service rep told me she is gonna search the answer to my problems on askjeeves. 
I'm sure Nintendo would make it harder than that.
I don't remember but I guess that's your point
Is the intent behind your comment that cause witcher didn't have a good MOBA that it would be impossible to make a good one at all?  

Cause that logic is very flawed imo
Short moment of "Team-based arena shooter/brawler" inbetween MOBA and Battle Royale thanks to Overwatch
Pooping simulators 
I can only hope MMOFPS has its day in the sun 😁
You also got the multiplayer shooter craze (where every game, even if single player, had to shoehorn a MP mode), the Minecraft craze of open world survival games with looting and crafting and now this.
>
Well, using dedicated servers instead of underpowered consoles with awful consumer grade internet connection would be a start...

 

exactly, which they wouldn't do (right atleast)   
Cause this is Nintendo we are talking about.  
To be fair only offering P2P and still wanting money is shit regardless of who offers it. Even if Microsoft and Sony by now have more to it than that(and still not having dedicated servers for multi player) they all started there and it always was overpriced because of it. Actually it still is but nowaways people have become so accustomed to it that they don't care anymore and the same will happen with Nintendo's service. Worst case it'll spread to PC but luckily people are way too greedy there so it doesn't work quite as easily.
I kept being told Nintendo's paid online meant we'd finally get dedicated servers :( You mean that's not true?
Arena of valor 
That's what I thought when I read this post lol.
That's why I hate these kinds of posts way worse than the ones being criticized. People get so worked up seeing the same topics repeatedly and think making posts like this make some kind of difference when it's really just pointless.
8 on one screen is crazy enough.
Smash is already a battle royale?  Wut?
Right? Exactly
I want a Pokémon botw in one specific sense- I want them to go to Pokémon in a fresh way, decide one gameplay theme to build around, and develop and evolve around that. I want them to question their preconceived notions and be willing to go over every mechanic and say “is this what Pokémon is really about? Does this contribute to the  core idea we are trying to get across?” They can even answer *yes*, just show that theyve been experimenting and taking risks!
This was the most boring smash video I have ever seen.
While yes that would be awesome, developing a multiplayer for a game like BOWT would take such a long time, that its not worth the effort. Those decisions have to be made BEFORE the game enters development stage.
Smash Bros is already a battle royale
Get ready to lose, I been tuggin titties since I was 3 and a half
I main the Wawa hoagie BR mode.
Mobile versions prove it is possible graphically on switch.

Rocket League proves you can do online well without Nintendo's services being fully built out.
I'm sure it's only a matter of time. 
This has been repeated time and time again. The fact that Fortnite isn't on the Switch is not likely to do with it's ability to run, rather the fact that a stable online service on the Switch right now is not even set in motion.
I would not doubt for a second this is in the works for an e3 announcement.
Don't Reddit too much or you'll go blind.
I seen only today 2.
Hey kitty girl
> CoD just announced they're replacing single player campaign with Battle Royale

are you shitting me 
Is it? I have no idea either. 

See the thing with the battle-royale genre that people are quick to forget. Likely if the game has enough assets, lets take GTAV for example, you could essentially make a BR mode out of those assets. 

That's why we had Arma and Minecraft Battle-royale mods for a pretty damn long time. Heavily population, but not as much as the numbers Fornite/PUBG pulled in.

That I don't get. Some side $15 DLC, *maybe*. But a standalone $40-$60 title no thanks. Either make it free, or let modders do it. Don't make the game from scratch, then charge people for watered down crap they could get better else with a mod. I get that making BR standalone could potentially mean more stablility, balance, and dev attention. but that's a joke.

Anyways tl;dr my point was I'm sure EA could easily make a BR gamemode into Battlefront 2 (if its not already there) but they'd rather charge you for a full-priced game more likely. 
That's kinda mean 
At least you have something in common. 
I have to, because nothing worthile is out on the switch.
What was April fools this year?
They don't even call it that!
Featuring Dante from Devil May Cry
I see at least one every day, sometimes a couple every day. You can only find them in new and they are usually deleted so not everybody will see them
Some people exclusively browse /new, I guess
Sounds like the community is already on it.
I think the point was everyone was so desperate for their own MOBA franchise that they even thought Witcher deserved one.

Now.  A Nintendo-style MOBA could be interesting.  If they treated it like how they did a shooter with Splatoon.
Well, that's been a thing since Team Fortress.
Awesome - thanks for the heads up! I'll take a look. 
A way bigger map, with only those on screen you have in your view. 
Battle Royale is "last man standing". That's what Smash has been since it was first incepted.
I'm just wondering if that's why he thought it was such a bad idea, if he considers it already to be a sort of battle Royale. Otherwise, I can't think of why it would be such a bad idea, I think a one stock mode with lots of players in smash would be fun!
Do you remember the Playstation "Smash" clone's name?

PlayStation All-Star Battle Royale.


¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
Yeah im all for them taking the franchise through the wringer and seeing what they need to keep and need to cull. I guess its just that when i think of “pokemon but botw”  i feel like most people want it to be something where you can go and catch the op, super rare pokemon. I can say I do like the idea of being able to go do gyms or the big challenges in whatever order but when they say pokemon and skyrim or whatever other series i dont usually see them meshing well of the bat. I do have to admit that part of my prejudice is for sure from all my years of playing the series. Im also in the minority of people who actual like turn based combat still. But i can also see some potential in having combat like kingdom hearts or . Hack to and extent. 
A partial counterpoint: the current most popular Battle Royale game, Fortnite, while initially built to be multiplayer, was very much not built to be a Battle Royale game. Many of the design choices were made in service of a very different sort of game than a Battle Royale.  Despite this, they were able to rework the game into a Battle Royale rather quickly.
Battle Royale games are the greatest for lack of content, but really big fanbase. People compare Breath of the Wild to BR games like they have some sort of competition with eachother content wise. It's almost as if people want developers to be lazy.
At least you have something in common.
A circle. 

A boring circle...
Circle of Trust. Everyone can make one circle with a password to join. When you give someone the password, they can either betray or join in. Once your circle is betrayed, you’re done and can only join someone else’s circle.

The problem is that few redditors actually know other redditors well enough to trust them, so it turned out to be pretty boring. You’d have to trust some random stranger not to betray you and most circles didn’t get very big.
Reddit circle. It looked like spam but basically said it should email them to join some exclusive club. I reported it though and found out afterwards it was  a (lame) joke
And Knuckles!
So if the mods are on it already, why does it matter? Not at you, but at OP.
So battleborn with Nintendo characters? :)
When it was just TF, nobody was clamoring for others to jump into the pool As Far As I Saw.  
It was Overwatch that started the "everything should be like this now" mindset IME
Unreal tournament boiiiiii
Much like Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter before it, or any fighting game for that matter. And really, any beat em up as well, if you think about it...
That's only one element of the genre. They're also typically open world games with ~100 players where everyone has to scavenge for supplies.

By your criteria, every fighting game and a good deal of shooters wpuld be "Battle Royale" games.
Well at least smash won't show up at fighting game tournaments anymore then since we know it's a battle royale game and not a fighting game. 
You don’t fight amongst your team.
I think I'd like to see Pokemon ATB style. Idk how well it would go off but like I think it would really shake up Pokemon battles. But eh I'll buy whatever they're selling for the switch.
Yeah I don’t think just dropping Pokémon into Zelda’s engine and world design would work. But I do think Pokémon is suffering in a more extreme way than Zelda was. The sense of adventure and exploration the game was initially built around have been cut back increasingly for a more structured, designed, guided experience. The complaints about Skyward Sword being overly linear and handholding (and drawn out cutscenes) mirror Sun and Moons critiques pretty closely, so I totally see why someone at first blush would say “hey it worked for Zelda, let’s do it for Pokémon!”

I do have a bunch of wild ideas, I don’t know how well they’d work. But I think the notion of “build a diverse team of monsters to overcome environmental and combat challenges” is a good mission statement for Pokémon, I’d love for Gamefreak to explore around that and see what mechanics could work well to feed that central theme

what if Pokémon didn’t forget moves so you could swap them out and experiment with movesets on the fly? What if held items like berries weren’t consumed? What if player levels synced to gym battles, and they had a “show six, pick 3” Pokémon stadium style battle? What if stats gained through levels were removed entirely and levels were only for learning new moves and evolving? Again some of these might be really good ideas and some of them might be terrible- but I’d really love Gamefreak to take that mentality as they approach their next game
Im not talking about design choices, im talking about developing an online infrastructure in a game. BotW doesnt have it, fortnide had it. Your counterpoint doesnt adress my initial argument.
That was a quick copy/paste job, I see the remedial computer classes are paying off. I’m proud of you. 
It's like the Button, but I never clicked on the circle.
did you claim yours hrrdrrr
How the fuck is this an April fools joke, I didn't even know this happened
Sounds like they tried another social experiment like they did last year but this one failed miserably and last year was an experience I will always remember.
I don’t think you understand how Circle of Trust worked
Karma farming
Honestly, that would be a great combo.  Battleborn was genuinely fun.  It just suffered from a botched launch and going against Overwatch.
There are only even 4 games in the genre, though, right? TF2, Splatoon, Overwatch, and Battleborn. And Overwatch and Battleborn came out at about the same time.

Am I missing something?
Not really. Most other fighting games are one on one. Smash is a group of fighters where the objective is to be the last one remaining. Battle Royale is a term that's been around for centuries and simply means free-for-all fight. So like I said, that's what Smash has been all along. It's only in the last few years that the gaming industry is redefining it.
Smash isn’t a fighting game
That's what the gaming industry has been calling Battle Royale only in the last few years. It's a term that's been around for hundreds of years and, like I said, Smash has fit that centuries old description since it first came out.
Just like how pubg or fortnite aren't battle royale games because they're actually shooting games
It's a fighting game with battle royale modes. 
There was ambiguity that made it sound like you were discussing multiplayer design to me.

I do know of single player games that have had fan-developed multiplayer modes, most impressively, Just Cause 2. If fans without the source code can hack together online multiplayer, I don’t see this as a total impossibility.
Nah I just retyped it :)
Guess you weren't invited to the circle :(
Yeah like, where's the joke
/r/place forever in our hearts 💓
Farma Karming
Oh I agree. I loved BB and am sad it’s basically gone by the wayside. 
I wouldn't even put BB in that category. It's more of an fps moba than anything.

But that is a really short list you have there, basically only the ones that broke the mainstream. There have been lots of others that failed to break out.
There are way more.  
Especially when you muddy the water with whether or not the "teambased" aspect is  an important element or not to be "overwatch like", and/or it needs to be class-based or not.  


Paladins, quake champions, lawbreakers.
True, most are one-on-one, but I guess if you boil it down, it always comes down to the last two standing ;) 

>centuries

Lmao.
Yes it is
I feel like the whole battle royale genre is based off, you know, Battle Royale? The movie about kids being sent to an island with some weapons and they scavenge for supplies and more weapons, killing each other until there is only one person left. The movie and book have been around far longer than the games and the Hunger Games.
Different phrases can have different meanings in different contexts
It may be a recent term, but that's what people mean when they use it. Trying to change the definition of a specific genre to include prior and completely different games is pointless. It's like if you tried to argue that Zelda or Metroid were fighting games because they happen to include fighting.
It’s not a fighting game
Where was the joke with the teams, or hats, or /place? The April fools jokes on reddit are usually not funny gags, it’s usually weird ideas that wouldn’t get to be implemented otherwise.
Karma farming. That should be a battle royal game too. Drop all the farmers into a wasteland with no karma, and watch them wither up and blow away, like dust in the wind. 
Lawbreakers isn't even a thing anymore it died so hard
In a tournament setting, sure. But each individual match is not Battle Royale. Whereas with Smash, it is. You could say the same about Tennis, or chess, or any number of one-on-one competitions but they really don't fit the description. Not trying to argue, just trying to provide a different viewpoint.
According to Merriam-Webster, the first known use of "battle royal(e)" was in 1671, so yeah. Centuries.

https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/battle%20royal
Found the Fortnite kid.  You think Battle Royale is a video game term?
3 centuries to be exact... what’s so funny?
https://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/battle-royal.html
It’s a party game
That's one context, sure. But it's kind of obscure. That book was also using the traditional sense of the word but adding a few elements. That doesn't mean the context of the book is now the new definition of the phrase. That would be like saying that every time someone uses the term Mass Effect, it's referring to the video game franchise. Mass Effect is a medical term that has its own definition.

And it doesn't invalidate what I've previously said. Smash is still Battle Royale in the traditional sense. That's exactly what it was when it released 20 years ago.
The WWE has been doing battle royale before the movie was made. What do you think the royal rumble is? Battle Royale has existed for centuries.
It's not a recent term, though. Battle Royale has been around for centuries and simply meant free-for-all fight. When Smash came out 20 years ago, that's exactly what it was. The definition you're referring to is recent but that doesn't change the past.
i mean there was playstation all stars battle royale. it's in the title.
Then what is it?
Super Smash Brothers? 
robin was a pretty good joke about how reddit gets shittier as more people join it
Whether it dies or not deosn't matter, it was part of a trend.
Fair enough, but I might argue that Smash also is heavily one-on-one (I don't do multiplayer), except for the odd fight where there's like 10 Yoshis or whatever. In games like Street Fighter, the single player experience is always climbing the ladder up to the last boss. But yes, this is clearly not really in the spirit of what battle royale is supposed to be. Semantics.
Damn I smell roasted kid 
Think you are probably correct there. First they don't know what epeening is, and then they think that battle royal was invented by Fortnite. What will these Fortnite kids do next.
Kid? I'm a history major. Never heard of the BR terms being centuries old. And I've never played Fortnite in my life. But sure, enlighten me! 
That doesn’t mean it’s not a fighting game...

I suppose Mario Kart isn’t a racing game, then?
In which you fight each other. So it's a fighting game.
That and wrestling has been doing it since before super smash was created.
Battle Royale is far more similar to the likes of PUBG or Fortnite than the Royal Rumble is. I never said royales started with Battle Royale.
Whatever the term genrrally means doesn't change what people generally mean when they use the term in regards to gaming, and it doesn't change what OP meant when he started the thread.

In the context of this thread, you're trying to claim that Smash Bros is the same genre as Fortnite and PUBG, and that's ridiculous.
https://www.reddit.com/r/Kappa/comments/8a2ae4/comment/dwvjybl?st=JG9N3HKC&sh=74bd95bf
Yes
As someone who plays Fortnite occasionally, I'm hoping the next thing they do is get a bit of maturity. The community is toxic as hell. 
Well a quick google search can enlighten you then :)
A word of advice: if you ever have to bring up something about yourself to prove yourself right (in this case, that you're a history major), you probably don't have a very good argument.

If the best thing you can say for your position is that you're the one saying it, that says that your position probably isn't very good and you should rethink it.
being in college doesn't mean you're not a kid...its best if you just stop here, you're in too deep already.
Really bad comparison. You have to remove 80% of the games mechanics to make it “somewhat” of a fighting game. The games was made as a party game, advertised as one, and 98% of the people who buy play as so
[not a fighting game](https://www.eventhubs.com/news/2013/jun/21/sakurai-says-smash-bros-isnt-fighting-game-completely-different-label-talks-game-development-fighting-genre-and-value-unpredictability/) 
Idk, the only difference seems to be weapons. Its just a free for all where the last one standing is the winner so the definition remains the same.
That didn't seem like a good argument to me. It only convinces me that smash is a competitive action fighting game. His argument really fell apart for me because I consider MOBAs to just be a form of RTS.
Welcome to the age of the Internet, where half the communities that get big turn toxic and the other half turn toxic, but in lemon scent this time
I was legit looking forward to diving into Fortnite.  I watched a ton of Twitch videos to scope out strategy before starting.  3 days later, I Noped out of there.

Every online community has its toxic users, but Fortnite players make CoD and Overwatch players sound like grandmas.
