Now you know

even a shit wiping device got patented
They were gonna call it the Shit Wheeler?!
A picture of this patent is in my bathroom so my wife can always remind me that she was right.
So, can some of you sick fucks that turn it the wrong explain to me why you do that?
The only reason you should ever load it the other way around is if you have a pet that loves to unroll them. The other way keeps the toilet paper from becoming undone and all over the floor.
So how did people wipe their ass before toliet paper was invented? I am 100% serious. 
Tell my wife that
My dad is such an adamant believer of toilet paper being over rather than under that I looked up this patent and was able  to get it printed and framed. It now hangs in the bathroom as the sigil of unrepented truth in his household.
Still doesn’t show it mounted
This is obviously a view from the back side of the roll
What was e. in the diagram there? A separate mini roll? The Declaration of Independence?
I don't care mine is backwards because it's next to the radiator so I can wipe my ass with warm paper
r/literalshitmeme
that could just be the correct direction from behind...
As much as I believe in my soul that this is the correct way to do it, admitting that the inventor gets to decide the 'best' way to use it would also means admitting that the guy who invited the .gif format gets to decide it's pronounced 'jif', and that motherfucker is just straight up wrong.
r/all -> sort by controversial -> top post
It also shows it the other way if it wasnt cut off
 You mean it shows the way to make yourself vulnerable to a patent infringement lawsuit... 
If we're going to have to follow the inventors instructions so literally, then I'd like to present to you [Steve Wilhite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Wilhite), the developer behind the Graphics Interchange Format, or GIF for short. Wilhite has been very clear on the pronunciation of GIF:

>*“They are wrong. It is a soft ‘G,’ pronounced ‘jif.’ End of story.”*

So you can either start saying jif or fuck off and let me hang the paper how I like it. Which one is it?
My great great uncle (I think that’s the relationship) invented the first machine that mass produced soft toilet paper!
When I was younger and using the bathroom at someone else’s house and they had it hanging backwards I would flip it the right way for them. 
Toilet paper hung in improper overhand fashion

My trust is in the simpsons
Nobody with any common sense ever doubted.
We all know the right way to use tp.  But there would be no way to label all of the parts that are shown here if the roll was the other way around, so this is really the only way it could have been depicted and not necessarily the way it's meant to be used.  Now, if we can see a patent with it mounted this way...
Can’t put it on the wrong way if you don’t have a shit wheeler.
There are two kinds of people in the world:

[cracked.com photo entry (not mine)](http://s3.crackedcdn.com/phpimages/photoshop/7/9/5/605795_v2.jpg) 
once art goes public, the artist relinquishes control over its meaning and interpretation
That person clearly never owned a cat. 
Who ever doubted?  That's just the devil's lies. 
As I see it... After over a hundred years we are improving the original design.

“Thankyouverymuch!”
                           - all the cats
 We have this in our bathroom at work.
It still goes under not over, 
Blasphemy! This false design dares to denounce the under pull method! 
Listerine mouthwash was made as a vaginal cleanser. Your point?
times have changed and people live with toilet paper loving animals now so the direction is changed for the sake of saving toilet paper from rude house mates
Unless you have cats.  Then it Def goes the other way. 
Fuck yes I was always right about this.
This is and always has been a stupid argument, besides, the other way prevents the cats and small children from unrolling the entire roll on a whim. People should stop talking about this.

Ok... I’m ready, bring on the downvotes....
The guy who created the .gif pronounces it "jif".
Does it really matter? Lots of things were made that we know use in different ways than the inventor intended.
So if you hang it backwards you can file a patent for it?
Someone should Photoshop this so it goes the other way, then repost it.
For all we know that sketch is showing the roll from the wall side.
[US465588A - US Patent - Toilet Paper Roll](https://patents.google.com/patent/US465588)

>My invention consists of a roll of connected sheets of paper for toilet use, said roll having incisions at intervals extending from the side of the web toward the center, but not meeting, and terminating in an angular out, whereby the slight connection left may be separated without injury to the connected sheets. 

>A difficulty with rolls of this character as heretofore manufactured has been due to the width of the bond uniting the sheets, which it has been necessary to make of considerable strength to withstand the tension of winding, but which it is desirable should be as trail as may be when the roll is unwound, otherwise the sheets do not separate with certainty and many of them are torn. Attempts have been made to remedy this by incisions in the bond that should not weaken it longitudinally; but such incisions avail little unless the sheets are pulled in a certain direction a condition the user seldom considers or is aware of. 

>In my improved roll I overcome this wholly by reducing the bond and terminating the lateral incisions in an angular cut, removing all liability of injury to the sheets in separating them. With this construction one sheet may be separated from the next without liability of the incisions turning in a direction parallel with the web and tearing off a considerable part of the contiguous sheet. At the same time I wind rolls containing any desired number of sheets.


You know what else got a patent? [Swinging fucking sideways.](https://patents.google.com/patent/US6368227B1/en)
So the patent for it going the other way is still open!??  I’m gonna get right on that. 
It's 2018. Why do people still smear crap with toilet paper? Get a bidet people!

www.tushy.me
The guy's name was Seth Wheeler, but nice joke.
!redditsilver
This would of been a better title 
Next time I run out while on the toilet, I’m yelling “I need a new shit wheel!”
Well if you thought for one second the other way was right, you kind of deserve it.
If you put the roll on upside down she's legally allowed to murder you for being uncivilized. That she continues to spare you shows how much she loves you. Be grateful. You barbarian. 
I do it the proper way but have on occasion put it the other way. Sometimes, I just don’t give enough shits to put it the correct way and just put it on whichever way I’m holding it.
Pretty small bathroom. Don't like it up against my thigh. Also I have cats.
I'm a front-pull purist but... I understand why many do the other way because of the children/pets factor. waaayyy harder for mischievous cats to wreak havoc the other way
If it goes under, you can pull the toilet paper off without touching the roll and it will rip instead of unrolling.
Having a 2 year old who loves to spin the toilet paper while sitting , having it the other way just loops when they spin it. If I had it the way as pictured , it would make a mess on the floor. 
Because sometimes I put it in that way and I literally don't care, it's paper either way.
If you have a cat,you must put it opposite of the patent.
Because we have animals in the house who have unrolled it before. 
My animals think it’s a game and unroll the entire tp roll if I have it “the correct way”.
They are heathens. Plain and simple.
Cat.
bc it makes no difference
I have a cat
If I put it the other way my cat will go fucking ham 
Cats cannot paw it all off the roll and TP your entire house while at work when the TP is in what I like to call the 'anti-cat position'.
Because cats
If someone has cats or toddlers it makes sense 
Because my kitten will unroll it easier otherwise
The only acceptable answer is "my cat/dog/child would unravel the whole thing otherwise"
To make people like you mad. 
I just can't imagine caring one way or the other, so whatever way it goes on is fine with me.
It literally does not matter which way it goes. It doesn’t change the experience in any way. 
I mean, I don't put it the wrong way, I put it the right way (under) but I understand what you're asking. Reason being the one-handed rip is much easier to do. I don't have to do any toilet yoga or try to wring more poop out of me to get some simple toilet paper.
It looks neater ig, I don't really care but I can see someone with OCD being annoyed by it.
The paper roll holder at my parents house is best used with paper roll other way around. If used like this picture it would spit out the paper roll.
There are times it actually matters.  If there isn't much room and you're cramped for space it can really help to have it unroll against the wall.  Other times, and this happens, if the roll is a bit far away it makes sense to have it like in the picture.
Cats. But other than that pure idiocy.
Cloth which you washed. You can also wash your ass with water. You can also use something like a corn cob
The three shells.
No u
Your dad is a good person. 
How dare you sir
Agreed
Delet this
The cardboard tube that holds the middle part.
I can get behind this reasoning
Came here to formulate this argument even though I usually hang it so it rolls towards the user

See also: semantic change, where the inventors of words have no domain
The first one. Gif sounds like gin.
Eh, you can't dictate how a word you make *sounds*

I generally assume anyone actually saying it as "jif" at this point is doing it to piss the other party off.

Also I put my toilet paper the other way because otherwise the cats very easily unroll it.
The only stupid thing is thinking the people “arguing” are serious
Put down your pets. Put your children up for adoption
Yeah this is a stupid argument. Anyone  who gives a shit about how you set up your toilet paper has no life.
You hang that shit correctly or you might as well go back to using leaves and moss you dirty Savage!!
Like brains!
tl;dr: this isn't the original patent for toilet paper, this is a patented way to cut it so sheets will tear off easily
Also [using a laser pointer to exercise a cat.](https://patents.google.com/patent/US5443036A/en)
I think everyone just does this naturally as a kid. Surprised I didn't get sued.
I wish to be this extra one day. 
is this tushy is the same tushy that made *cough cough* ^porn ^video *cough cough*?
It’s definitely Shit Wheeler, or else why would he be hiding it?
[**Here's your Reddit Silver, ThorVonHammerdong!**](http://i.imgur.com/x0jw93q.png "Reddit Silver") 

/u/ThorVonHammerdong has received silver 2 times. (given by /u/_Cyber_Guy_) __[info](http://reddit.com/r/RedditSilverRobot)__
A far greater honor than gold. Thank you
Give enough, or take enough?
I can confirm, that position only works if you don't have cats.
Just...shut the door for pets. 

It's not hard. 
Why woudl the friction be higher that way?

I can do that and have it the correct way.
For me it’s straight up a random operation. “Is a new roll mounted? Yes.” End of brain transmission. 
Oh boy, here we go again...
\*teleports behind you*
“There are many fine people on both sides.”
But they didn’t have washing machines back then. So you’re telling me that people would hand wash shit-stained cloths? And that corn cob thin has to be a joke. 
No you both
I can't believe you've done this
Noted 
It’s not serious? Great. So we can stop talking about it right? 
That...might actually be the joke here. It is a ridiculous thing to talk about. It is a ridiculous thing to complain about. That's kinda why it is funny.
and genitalia
Wipe enough. 
He gives a shit when he takes a shit.
I have two cats and have the paper the right way round. They are good kitties 😁 
That's where the litter box is for a lot of cat owners. Shutting the door is not an option.
Pull it sideways, it hits the arm instead of just pulling more paper.
https://www.farmersalmanac.com/what-did-people-use-before-toilet-paper-24419

Corn cobs are pretty soft. And regardless of what method you used you'd be touching poop. The cloth method means you'd just delay the touching of the poop until later, while the bidet meethod happened right away.
Cobb works pretty well to wipe your poop.
At the same time 😉
You are welcome to, the rest of us are enjoying ourselves.
alright
And buttholes
One of my two kitties likes to "make it snow"
"I refuse to train/can't my pets, so I let them train me." is all I hear from that attitude.
Imagine going back 300 years and giving someone a baby wipe to use. They would be so happy afterwards that they would cry with joy. The entire village would hear about the hero that brought them baby wipes as an alternative to wiping their ass with corn. They might even make you their god. 
And suction cup dildos
I don't know, "the bathroom is the only place I'm willing to keep a literal box of shit" seems like a pretty reasonable position to me.
How do you use... I mean...
I am talking about the inability/unwillingness to train their cats to not fuck up the tp. I keep the cat's box in the bathroom as well. I originally meant to reply to another comment.  ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯
If you don’t put them on your head like your the Dick Unicorn you’re not using it how I’d use it
Why would you train a cat
cats are assholes

They can't be trained to the extent that dogs can because they don't have a pack dynamic
/u/AWildSketchAppeared

I'm having a hard time visualizing this. 🤔
So it doesn't fuck up the toilet paper? 
Yea but training them to not fuck with certain stuff isn't that hard to do.
Lol why would training your cat be the better solution when you can just turn the tp one way and solve that issue in 2 seconds?
some cats, sure, but a lot of cats will continue doing exactly what they want to, the only difference is that they start to know what they're doing will get them into trouble, so they're just quieter about it/run when they get caught
