Asking your crush out via Snapchat and getting screenshot

This is why you do it face to face 

No paper trail, just awkward, soul crushing rejection 
There should be a thread about this, how to ask someone out.
Post this in the chat. You could revive yourself.
This is why I'm friendless and alone

I fear rejection so much and I get afraid of making a fool outta myself to such a high degree that I'll end up on one of these subs 😣
Press F to pay respects 
She just sends this to her friends to ask how to reply, don't lose hope just yet.
It could mean they're going to send it to the friend(s) to whom they've been talking about you affectionately, because they're excited and you finally asked them out. That's what I do when there's even a *chance* someone might say something that might possibly indicate that they like me even a little bit. Maybe.

Then again, I might be thinking to optimistically right now, which would be very strange... I'm usually such a pessimist... 
I told my crush I liked her and this happened 
Big oof
this is immune since i got rejected way too many times. like way too many. 
bruh just hold F to withstand
does this actually happen? jeez
r/snaplenses could’ve allowed some dankness to it and not by screenshotted in whole.
That’s not how you should ask someone out
The celebrities of the future will have to deal with people from their past sharing screenshots and regretful social media posts, and the public won’t know if they’re real or not. 
That's when they name-drop you anyways on their insta spam account.
It's also harder to reject someone in person than it is over text
It will just be the blind leading the blind 
It’s not rocket science. You answered you’re own question. “Hey, wanna go out sometime?” Done.

 Just don’t do it over text or something, do it face to face. Girls don’t like to say that they got asked out over the phone
That’s actually true
Sorcery 100
This is the type of shit that’s gets u a girlfriend OP
Always better to know what happened vs always questioning what could’ve happened 
Bro. I got asked out by a girl and still got rejected by her because she changed her mind. 

I can never admit feelings again.
If the pain of rejection is acute, then the pain of regret is chronic. So don't be afraid to take a chance and talk to the person you like. Sure you may fail and yes getting rejected will hurt, but what if they says yes? What if they're the person of your dreams? And if you never take the chance, ask for their number, ask them to go out sometime, the only question you'll be asking for years from now is, what if?
Im more the 'having a relationship that lasts 4-6 months is useless and i shouldnt invest my feelings in someone for such a short time' type of guy
That's why you always do it in person, IMO. 
Are you alright? DM me if you're stuck for someone to talk to dude
F
F
Φ

Edit:

F
Ф
Or she thinks he's a joke 
hey it's me, the person you've been talking about affectionately to your friend(s) wan sum fuk?
Then what happened?
Haha! Imma use that now.
They'll most likely be fake tho
Lol you're seeing the opposite pop up more and more. Girls lamenting ignoring people who went on to become big things. It's kinda funny 
Lmao that is lowkey my fear. Last year this girl I had a crush on ended up hating me because of a little misunderstanding but I still decided to ask her out over text #NoRegrets. I'm like 90% sure after she rejected me she screenshotted our text conversation and posted it on her finsta. Her finsta had over 200 posts when I saw it so it's very possible
Good song
+ it’s a lot easier to reject someone if you do it on the phone 
but what if they live halfway across the country
Calling them is fine too just not over text. Also, I have tried over text and it was fine too. Sooo just gauge the situation?
Also have something in mind to do. “Hey, wanna go out sometime?” is great, but it’s even better if you can immediately follow it up with “I heard there’s a concert/movie/festival/Park/other activity happening at x time that seems like it would be fun to go to.”
*Restoration 100
Not when you know it's gonna be a "no" before it ever happens. Experiencing it doesn't affirm anything, it just feels shitty.
Or I could sit alone 
A L W A Y S  A C C E P T  A F F E C T I O N  W H E N  I T  I S  P R O V I D E D.

Seriously, there are young kids like us that would kill for even petty teenage love.
Over 30 coming from /all: seriously don't do that to yourself. 
F
you lost hope
She acted like it never happened and we talk the same way we talked I told her
Because of the implication 
Fax them. 
I'm not actually a teenager; I'm here from /r/all.

It doesn't actually matter how you do it, what matters is that you do it. 
How do you know it’s a no? You can read minds? Just because she’s out of your league, doesn’t mean you’re out of her league.
Getting shut down helps you move on; the feeling of heartbreak goes from slow burn to acute pain but you get over it.

Source: Been in that exact situation
And then what?Always remember that it only takes 10 seconds of courage to ask someone out.Count it in your head and blurt the question out.
Seriously I need that self esteem boost holmes
Great,now i only have to try not to look like Quasimodo.It will fix by itself,right?^^^^right?
Restoration 100
They’re not actually in danger... they just think they are
Transporter of gods...
Not the hero we deserve, but the one we need.
Clearly you're at least decently attractive and not a moron. Some of us aren't so lucky, holmes. It's easy to tell when you're gonna get rejected when you're completely unlikable outside of "You're funny and nice and a *great f r i e n d*!"
Sure, once. But again and again and again? It starts to never go away. It's no longer, "Man, this person rejected me," but rather, "Damn, I'm not good enough for anyone," followed by, "I'm not good enough."
I literally *am* the Quasimodo of my situation. The girl I like thinks I'm "a great guy" but likes someone else, who likes her back. Not to mention I'm butt-ugly and spend most of my time alone. Feels bad, man. 
A lot of times its attitude too. If you truely believe you're not going to have a chance, then it shows in the way you carry yourself around your crush I'm sure. Maybe just asking will make you seem more confident and possibly even more attractive. Worst case scenerio, you have a very embarrassing situation that you'll laugh about in a year, plus the gained experience of at least trying. It's better than crushing regret later.
Be careful what you do for women who you want to date. Me and this other dude were both going for the same girl. He knew her longer. He was constantly trying to help her out with random shit like finding car parts or taking her places. I saw her on weekends, took her to do fun things like drunken mini-golf, wine tasting, car shows, good food, etc. Guess who got her? Not mr. helpful nice guy. Don't wait at her feet. Show her she'll have a good time with you and leave the helpful nice guy stuff for when you've actually got her, and then that helpful nice guy stuff is just boyfriend stuff.
Look don't matter as much as you think they do, and a lot of ugly-ass motherfuckers out there have smoking hot girlfriends.

Personality is key, and being down on yourself like that is doing a lot more to hurt your situation than your looks ever could. Be confident, don't act like a dick, have decent self esteem, and believe in yourself, and you'll get any girl you could ever want.

If you were to ask a million girls what they think is sexy in a man, I assure you, "his looks" aren't going to be at the top of the list.
Im in that exact spot mate. No exaggeration. Nice to see im not alone with this shitty feeling.

Its still better to keep trying than to get stuck on one person though. 
Im ugly,have no friends and im very *very* shy.Feels bad man
This. Am ugly. My gf is way hotter than me. 
