How could anyone say no?

That's a pretty compelling argument, though. 
Attached is my resume. Pls respond. 
I thought it was sort of funny actually
You miss 100% of the shots you don't take.
This guy strategies.
*Tactical*
This is funny, people here don't have a sense of humor on this sub sometimes 
Reminds me of the movie out cold
Send bobs an vagene 
Umm, are you guys aware of what a facepalm is?
Why is this on facepalm, add something else and this could be on dankmemes, I mean this is funny
Gotta give him an A for effort though.....😝
Smooth
This is more of a high five than a facepalm situation
Where's the Facepalm? That's actually fairly smooth. 
It's concise, semi formal and lacks asterix. 
There is no way her reply could be anything other than “Take me! Take me now!”
I've gotten this exact message from a guy. Wow.
See I've used this kind of line, but not out of any serious intent. A friend of mine was dating this tool who tried being a controlling asshole and refused to let her talk to me or any of her other guy friends. Needless to say, that didnt last long and she kicked him to the curb not long after that. Once I found out, I sent her a message fairly similar if not as flowery as this post. I knew it'd make her laugh because the douchebag tried his Alpha male chest puffing shit to get me to stop talking to "his woman" and I laughed in his face. Dude hated me, so the line worked perfectly.

Maybe this post is someone desperate and being an asshole, worthy of a facepalm. Or maybe it's a stupid joke between friends, still worthy of a facepalm but in good humor not blatant stupidity.
You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. 🤷‍♂️🤦‍♂️
Gotta shoot your shot
This dude gets it. No pussyfooting around, just goes right after it. 
It’s quite funny tbh
The thirst is real
[deleted]
One word. Legend!
That would work.
And not just anyone, but ME
I think that's just funny, still upvoted though.
Startup idea: I should set up a bot to send such messages. 
You miss 100% of the shots you don't take
Man took his shot..many of mine have looked way worse
Could be a lot worse, could of course be a lot better. Like the one I got
r/woooosh
Not a facepalm, but still upvoted because it made me laugh.   Sorry team.  
Hey shoot your shot
It's actually not a bad strategy
That’s actually hilarious. Probably said tongue in cheek
Yeah, this would at least make me smile depending on the person sending the message. 
Hahaha awesome
He’s an opportunist 
/r/SadCringe 
“Have sex with me because I’m the lowest you could possibly go. That’ll show him”
Don’t screenshot my pickup lines
I can see where people see the humor in this, and if it were someone I knew well telling me this I could find it funny, but it makes a pretty shitty assumption.  I'm a guy, but if a girl said this to me, there's a good chance I'd be pretty insulted.  Sure a lot of people have bad breakups, but sometimes people stay friends, and if anyone made this offer about pissing off my ex, it would turn me off instantly.
[deleted]
Ew. 
r/cringepics
r/iamatotalpieceofshit
[deleted]
r/whiteknighting
r/whiteknighting
r/niceguys
I would be amazed and somewhat disappointed if she doesn't immediately see the logic and comply
“Thank you for taking the time to read this message”, like he’s applying to a job lol.
Whoever that guy is he deserves a medal 
...I've fucked blokes for less.
Hey! You miss $100% of the shots  you don’t take
Maybe you could set up a script to automatically send this message any time any girl in your friend list switches their status to single. Maybe that's what's happening here 🤔
I called one of your references and he said youre a redditor...sorry no interview
I showed you my references, pls respond
I don't know how relationships work, but isn't that essentially what a dating profile is? Just like a resume for relationships? 
I’d laugh if I got that message. It’s so polite too 
Yeah, people here take everything so seriously. 
Not saying I'd say yes, but I find it funny enough to at least think about it and call the references on the resume.
I thought it was *very* funny. Would definitely cheer me up after a breakup. 
Yeah, in a sitcom situation, sure. I hope this guy is kidding.
"-Wayne Gretzky" -Michael Scott
This is fucking brilliant, genuinely funny, this is the kind of Facebook bot we need.
It's funny from a removed perspective here, I don't think any of my exes would have appreciated it.  Well, one of them probably would have.
Come back! We’ll cuddle! *We’ll cuddle..*
Nothing would pish awf my steph fatha moore
Vagana
Milk truck arrive 
Make the boobs more SEEABLE
Is that what people consider effort these days??
So romantic. I'm wet just reading this and I'm a dude.
I'm guessing it didn't work?
same guy? 
Shooters shoot
did you mean to type  r/insanepeoplefacebook ?, I'm a bot beep boop and this action was performed automatically
That's two words!
This is more of a polite douchebag move than a nice guy move tho . . .
[deleted]
Sorry, who is he trying to defend?
r/issajoke
Totally r/niceguys
And not to mention from a biological standpoint my penis will fit  in your vagina. Thank you for your time.
Technically, he's applying to get a blow job.
RIP your inbox then. 
Hey it's me ur bloke
hehe hey um hey 
100 dollars percent?
ever
Now I'm imagining how bad talking about prior experience and references would be on a dating profile.
It’s at least self-aware
For real! Nobody knows how to take a joke, they just stay self-righteous asf. 
Hell, it could actually work. I think the dude just needed to ham it up some more like "I'll be honest, the sex won't be very good, but I promise it will be a bearable 45 seconds. I am a terrible conversationalist so the post-coitus pillow talk will probably be the most awkward 3 minutes of your life. But considering that the goal is just to rub it in your ex-boyfriend's face that you have moved on, the four minutes it will take for us to do this deed would be a GREAT return on time investment."
He is unless you want to then he's definitely not
ELI5 Why do people attach Michael Scott’s name to the end of a quote?
You can’t do both dude
Then your exes had no sense of humor, because this is indeed amusing. 
Virginia
Hello bitch lasagna 
Effort had been redefined to mean "participation." Participation has been redefined to mean "attendance."
No. No it did not.
You're a good bot!
because this isn't sad, actually pretty funny and a decent joke.
Because reddit dude. Like my r/cringepics comment. Im going to guess a lot of people on this sub are creepers because this isn't funny its just gross. Have an upvote.
Crap. I meant to put r/niceguys
r/IncelDownvoteParty
Did you just assume the poster’s gender?  
Your penis would fit my pores, let's be real.

^^I ^^have ^^monster ^^pores.
A sex interview if you will.
Never ever ever ever
Gotta shoot ya shot man 
^^^^^It's ^^^^^spelled ^^^^^righteous.
It's from an episode of the office. 
I don't know either tbh
But I just did!
It makes some poor assumptions, though.  I'm a guy, but unless I knew the girl saying this to me pretty well, I would be really annoyed by the assumption that I want to piss my ex off.  That just seems like a shitty thing, when you don't know if they're on bad terms or still friends with the ex.
Sorry im a vagetarian
No... Effort has *always* meant "reaching out of your comfort zone" which this guy is clearly trying to do. Stop trying to sound old fashioned, you just sound like a prick.
You must just be frigid cos that is some top shelf logic
r/canttakebeingwrong

Or

r/chodedigsheelsin
Well I personally can't remember the last time I read a girl saying this... but for guys that's another story
That's called a date.
"I'm not a real casting agent ...and there is no job."
I shoot my shot and it brick 
Autocorrect said that was wrong! Wtf
Ironically, so is the concept of ELI5.
Thank you
send bobs an vegeta 😡
When he said participation has been redefined to mean "attendance", he's making a jab at the "everyone gets a trophy" kids.
r/thereisnowronginanopinion
And not to mention from a biological standpoint my penis will fit  in your Boi pussy. Thank you for your time.
Autocorrect will overwrite the correct spelling if you misspell it enough times. 
I doubt most 5 year olds could absorb the amount of information given in most ELI5's. Or understand some of the words. The eli5 explanations need eli5 redirectories..
For taking the time
Not exactly an ELI5 question, though, is it? 
Fuck vegeta send goku 
There is when you agree with the person who posted an obvious joke in r/facepalm.
Idk mine will autocorrect me with stuff ive never even heard of. Sometimes it'll be random like "Idk" gets changed to "qr.2nd"
To have sex with me
Autocorrect is a multifaceted tool with many many different ways of ducking you over.
This is like an off brand r/onewordeach
No You're a multifaced tool!
Your mom's a multifaceted tool!
How dare you motherfucker! 

I'm a trained navy seal and ive killed hundreds of people. I will find you and kill you bitch. I know of a dark website where I can have u killed I could have president killed with enough money. I know where YOUR bed is bitch.
