LPT: If you're looking for something to read, re-read the books you were required to in highschool. Many of them have a whole different tone when read voluntarily and it will become obvious why they were required.

They will primarily have a new tone because it will also be the first time im actually reading them. 
Like Fahrenheit 451 and 1984
So does George still kill Lenny the second time around?
Reading in high school was the worst. We had to read To Kill A Mockingbird in the tenth or eleventh grade and nothing ruined that book more than having to complete an assignment at the end of every chapter. Some of the questions in these assignments were oddly specific pieces of trivia, too.

I get the idea behind it, but it made reading a cumbersome chore and turned me off of reading for nearly a decade after I left. It's a shame, many of the books they had us read were the best of the best, but they're presented to students in such a way that they won't be able to appreciated them!
This is great advice!

I would like to tack on that reading lesserknown works by the same authors or similar ones is valuable as well. Aldous Huxley, Margaret Atwood, and John Steinbeck come to mind for alternative titles.

Another example, On the Beach by Neville Schrute is extremely topical right now. If you liked 1984 and/or Brave New World you'd love this.
Great Expectations still sucks
I did this with Crime and Punishment. As soon as I was done (at like 2am lol) I emailed my AP Lit teacher to thank her for introducing me to Dostoevsky. And bless her soul, she responded within the hour! She was so happy. Said she always hopes her students will revisit books in their own time and find their own meaning as they grow, because she can't experience it with them. It was a beautiful email, I have to find it and read it again. 

Thank your teachers if you do this, it really will make their day.
This is huge.

I simply couldn't enjoy *The Great Gatsby* when I was in high school. I didn't have the maturity and life experiences. Reading it as an adult floored me because I had met people who were self absorbed like Daisy or broken like Gatsby.
Slaughterhouse-Five is still the best book I have ever read
I reread a book I read for fun in high school and it felt like a completely different book. So much just goes over your head when you're inexperienced at life. 
Did this with A Handmaid’s Tale before the show was released. I had read it in the 12th grade over a decade ago. I couldn’t believe how little I remembered of it and how much I had missed the first time around. 
Going through my husband's old stuff I was delighted to see his Reflections textbook. It's filled with many short stories that have stuck with me since high school and now I can re-read them! My favourite is 'The Most Dangerous Game' 
Can confirm. Reading "The Jungle" by Upton Sinclair was optional in high school, so I read something that seemed more interesting. It wasn't, but I digress. Over 400 pages to craft a narrative surrounding the plight of the working class, bring to light the corruption within the government, the wrongdoings of a capitalist regime, and bring to life how horrible things actually were for immigrants and the lower class. All completely overshadowed by like 8 paragraphs of "oh fuck THAT'S where our meat comes from? DISGOOSTIN!"
'Where the red fern grows' was different as an adult
A Tale of Two Cities is still a painfully arduous read. 
I never understood what we do in English class. When i am reading a book in real life I am most certainly not gonna go around over analyzing it till it dies
I agree with that in general.  However, I don't want to read any of the following again:
Romeo and Juliet
Death of a Salesman
Of Mice and Men 
Robert Burns poems (at least I know the words to Auld Lang Syne I guess).
If you’re looking for something to read, read Lolita and when you finish it read it two more times. 
I could barely get through to kill a mockingbird and the scarlet letter, and I like reading. 
I dunno man, Effi Briest still seems to be the most boring and asinine read I can imagine
I'm pretty sure all those books forced upon us in school were actually ruined for me.  First impressions matter.
I remember reading Hemingway and Orwell in high school and having no interest or ability to focus on either. A decade-ish later and they're two of my favorite authors, something about being forced to read them on a set schedule just killed my interest. 
Great LFP. I hated the curious incident of the dog in the night time when I had to read it at 14 in school but when I read it 4 years later voluntarily I thoroughly enjoyed it  
Go ask Alice and the glass castle! Both were required reading for me in HS. amazing books when read again. 
This also works for your favorite tv shows. I rewatch sopranos about every five years or so and gain new perspective. 
If you haven’t read them, Of Mice and Men and Flowers for Algernon are fantastic. They’ll probably make you cry though.
Too true. Slaughterhouse V is one of my favorite books to date, but it was way too boring when I read it in middle school.
I think I read Lord of the Flies three times. Each time, I picked out something new I hadn't noticed from the prior reading. 
try the book Blindness. totally different the second time around. 
Agree. Also, a lot of the classics are free or very cheap for ebooks (i.e. Kindle). You'll find a new appreciation to those books when you're not being required to read them and force fed an interpretation by your teacher. Also, as a grown adult with more life experiences you'll find more ways to connect with the stories. You'll understand why they're the "classics."
I don't understand how orgy porgy is something I needed to know in highschool?
My opinion didn't change too much, but it does add a different depth to the story.
Also, most of them are free, thanks to [Project Gutenberg](https://www.gutenberg.org/wiki/Main_Page)
Astute LPT! Sincerely, I went back and read The Count of Monte Cristo a few years ago, and I was absolutely engulfed in the book. I didn’t make it past the 3-4 chapter in high school. Great book BTW
I was going to, but now that you told me to, I don't wanna.
Except for the book The Bell Jar by Silva Plath. Fuck that book. Didn't read it in high school, read it in college cause it said oh required, but nope we were never told to read it. Such a shit book. 
On the other hand, some books like Ethan Frome are still bad.
For men: Zorba the Greek.  It was actually transforming in high school but I get the impression it could help a lot of men today.
*The Jungle* and *Babbit* were written by Upton Sinclair and Sinclair Lewis, but I have no incentive to plow through those again. The former had a surfeit of gross realism about life at the turn of the 20th century, and the latter was a dismal depressing account of a guy who felt lost in society, like he didn't belong.     
Did this with Catch 22 and Fahrenheit 451 - Amazing reads for your mid 20s vs mid teens 
I've had this thought for quite a while and realised most useful books I read were actually the books from school. Good LPT.
The giver is a pretty good one
Except for 19th century British literature, which is just as boring as it was in high school. Hell, people living in that era didn't even like being there. 
Or why not a book that gives some new insights on what we where taught in school www.Tychos.info
I had a post right under it about TKAM being ranked higher than the Bible
Lord of the Flies will still be crap right enough
Didn't Churchill say something to this effect? Something like "Great books are wasted on the young."
some of my favorite reads were in high school english


agreed. heart of darkness, brave new world I read about 5 years ago and both are stunning. johnny tremain and grapes of wrath also. 
Re-read the sparknotes you mean? 
Nothing on Earth can make me read Effi Briest again.
Wuthering Heights will never be reread. It was turrible. 
Just reread my algebra 2 book. 

Your advice is shit.
Easy of Eden. It’s a true masterpiece.
I'm re-reading The Diary of Anne Frank. First time, I was a kid and it didn't resonate. Now that I'm grown, it's suspenseful, fun, frightening, and makes me appreciate our lives. 
Another upside to this is that you're more likely to meet more people who have also read these books. You have a few more shared talking points. 
Catcher in the Rye is still one of my favorite books to date 
I went back and reread Fifth Business by Robertson Davies years after I graduated. I was sad I hadn’t realized how great it was when I read it in tenth grade. But then, in tenth great I was voluntarily reading harlequin romances so... 
Does rereading the Cliff's Notes count?
I recently reread One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and I really hated McMurphy this time around. I also had a lot more sympathy for Nurse Ratched. She is a lot less sadistic in the book than they made her in the movie and if McMurphy and the other patients could have been chill for like a second then Ratched probably would have been much more relaxed and it could have been a nicer experience for everyone.
I hated a handmaid's tale in high school. But couldn't articulate why.
Touching Spirit Bear was one of the school books I enjoyed reading 
Things Fall Apart is just as depressing and soul-sucking as the first time.
Things Fall Apart? The Stranger? Joy Luck Club? I could probably handle those again. Now... Tale of Two Cities? Noooooooooope. I don't think I could endure Dickens again ever in my life.
I will NOT reread The Grapes of Wrath! D:
Why would you reread books you were forced to read in what is basically an 8 hour per day pro U.S government indoctrination camp? 
Yeah, I'm not so sure I got the full understanding of any book we read in high school from the Sparknotes.
I see that you, an intellectual used sparknotes as well. 
And we won't have to listen to the slow people in the class struggle through them. 
Haaaaa too true
Lol
Brave New World.

First time: An exaggerated portrayal the schism of the modern life from nature. How odd, no thank you.

Second time: A life lacking much personal responsibility with a socially acceptable drug-induced euphoria? Yes please.
Animal farm is also just a fun book. 
That would be Fahrenheit 2435.

They have children read those in high school? That would have been nice.
The Jungle and Grapes of Wrath too. Both were snoozefests that I Cliff’s notes’d my way through in freshman/sophomore year. But they have poignant messages.
Yes  Was going to post about Fahrenheit 451. I remember hating the book in high school. But I also knew that I had been unfair to it, not paying attention as I read, just trying to gather enough information to pass the test. Plus it was summer reading. The worst kind of forced reading. 

Re-read it as an adult. Makes me sad I didn't give it time many years ago. What a beautiful (depressing) story. Looking forward to the HBO film even if it doesn't live up to the book. 

I've never read 1984. Need to get on that. I plan to read Brave New World as it was another novel I was forced to read that I didn't give care to. 
Don’t think about that, think about the rabbits. 
not if you start over and read it with the good karma path. get to at least paragon level to have pulse heal before lenny meets the puppy
That was a nice book tbh I really enjoyed reading it
Woah bro spoilers
Exactly. Literature needs to be discussed, not really quizzed on and memorized, that does nothing for the person reading it. You need to engage with it, and for that you usually need to open discussion and criticism
I was a fast reader, so between times where we had to go in a circle and read a paragraph or two aloud and little quizzes handed out, I was often ahead in the book. A lot of the quizzes we're annoying if you've read ahead because the questions assume your ignorance of upcoming events and would sometimes ask you to write what you think was or should happen next.
I tend to agree.. We did TKAM in Gr 10 English and I hated how dissected it was in class and it was a chore to read.  Picked it up again in my early 20s and loved it.  I tend to read it now every summer
Same. I still get irritated just thinking about that book. 
This. I wasn't really "bad" at reading but I just didn't enjoy it like bookworms do, but I remember in middle school, because I was known to have problems in school for being so shy, the principal (at the time still vice principal) she gave me some books, just for me to have for my own time, and so I did read the Harry Potter one at home, and did find that I actually enjoyed reading it and it was actually understandable and imaginable, unlike the books they forced us to read during class which were not only too complex/mature/philosophical for me at the time, but were just forced as "Do it or fail". The teacher and students would take turns reading it in class, and I would be only half-paying attention because it just doesn't feel natural or comfortable for me to read this way, especially a book I have no interest in or am even annoyed by (had to read Catcher In The Rye 2 or 3 times in highschool because I went to 3 different high schools! So now I just hate that book no matter what, the protagonist was annoying enough).

I think my 6th and 7th grade English teacher was actually good about the books, because she seemed to genuinely like books, and would choose interesting books that were actually interesting or entertaining for younger audience (at least to me), like The Cay, Shabanu, Witch of Blackbird Pond, and one about a Japanese couple, as opposed to books I couldn't understand/care about like Catcher In The Rye and Of Mice And Men. I don't remember there being any really hard/bad assignments for her books either, and she'd talk about the books with us between chapters too.

I think really the best way to get a young person to read, is to let them choose the book they want to read, and even let them go at their own pace. They would then not associate reading a story, as purely work.
I couldn't stand reading To Kill A Mockingbird for this exact reason. At 26, I decided to give it another go and absolutely loved the book. It was nice to read it at my own pace and on my own time and not have to worry about being tested over it.
That is the one book that I actually still really enjoyed 
This is how I do homeschool with my kid. It’s basically how I like to read a good book. I read the whole book first, and then I scour the internet for fan theories and insights. Imagine if teachers in high schools taught this way! Read the book once over without any interruption for quizzes and assignments. Week one, the assignment is just to read the book and chat about it in class. Week two, fan theory discourse begins. Final assignment is to submit your own or your favorite fan theory and argue it’s validity, or argue against a commonly accepted theory/insight. I feel like these small changes would make kids way more likely to read the books and give a shit about them.
I was in the minority in high school for being fascinated by 1984 and BNW and enjoying them. I'll definitely have to check out On the Beach now!
Yeah I loved Harper Lee’s other works! 
Absolutely true for me with Steinbeck. Enjoyed his works in high school, but The Pearl, Cannery Row, Travels with Charley, etc really served to deepen my love of his writing.
Was it not everything you'd hoped for? 
Yeah I’m my opinion, it’s probably the worst thing I’ve ever read. 
So does The Scarlet Letter
This is exactly how I felt about *The Shining*. At 15 it was a ghost story, at 25 it's about a man trying to do his best to get through life, but life and his own demons (and a fair number of ghosts) keep holding him back. 
I reread Frankenstein every few years, and it breaks my heart every time. I loathed it in high school, but now it’s one of my favorite books! 

My feelings about high school reading I think was both from lacking the experience to relate to some of the nuance, and because we read at an alarming rate (Moby Dick took us one week) so I was skimming to get through in as little time as possible so I didn’t have/take the time to enjoy. 
It’s so popular, but I love Vonnegut and that’s actually my least favorite book by him. 

I’d recommend Player Piano as a first read for anyone trying to get into Vonnegut. Some of his stuff is pretty far out, and that one helps you ease into it. 

Or sirens of titan. 
If you haven't tried before, I'd recommend Keats' poems too. I don't generally like poetry but Keats is just riveting for me for some reason. 
When you try to tell everyone about all the shitty industries but they only want to talk about one.
I thought about checking this one out again, but I purposefully stay away from books/movies with animal/pet death. There's nothing worse to me on this planet.

I did just re-read 'the giver' recently, and that one is definitely worth checking out again. Plus, it's a very quick and easy read. 
How so? I remember reading that when I was young and crying. 
We had Hard Times. The title was fitting. 
English class would be so much more effective if they were done like book clubs. With wine for the teacher, because damn. 
Well, the opposite pov is that you will get barely anything out of it without the analysis. My favorite example is either Great Expectations or Great Gatsby. Many people read them, like the story, and that is it. But once you bring in analysis "till it dies" it brings out so much more they are like entirely different stories. They are so deep and rich people don't notice because they just also happen to be entertaining.

Idk maybe it's just my pov because I took a lot of English in university because I liked it but I find the analysis essential to actually enjoying literature beyond a very basic level. It's like the difference between enjoyment and appreciation. 
But, if you *did* want to think critically about a book (or a movie, or a painting, or poem, or an advertisement, etc) you will be able to because your teacher equipped you with the tools to look beyond just what the writer/artist/creator has given you at face value. 
 
To be fair plays get way way better when performed. Though fuck Romeo and Juliet. Out of all of Shakespeares ballin plays they pick the stupidest one to cover exhaustively in schools
I chose to do this book for my Grade 12 thesis in high school, my teacher tried to talk me out of it because of its "content".
I definitely don't regret it, probably one of the harder ones to write about for high school though!
and more. there is nothing i've read that's like *lolita*.
Almost my entire class in 10th grade failed the test for I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Very true. Being from Oklahoma I’ve especially wanted to re-read Grapes of Wrath as an adult... But I since I absolutely hated reading it in school I just can’t seem to make myself. 
I can't imagine forcing high schoolers to read that. My version was like 1500 pages. 
Not sure how trig, bio, Spanish, and Brit lit are US gov indoctrination but ok 
Pink monkey anyone? 
Sparknotes were good because they pulled out all the buzzparagraphs and ‘themes’ that the teacher wanted you to know. Their only downside was when writing a paper it was pretty obvious when you didn’t actually read any of it. 
You forgot your second comma 
Thank you for posting Brave New World, so many people only bring up 1984 and 451. I've always felt we were headed in that 'dystopia' more than the Orwellian kind.
I read 451 in 7th grade and 1984 in 8th. Now schools are banning them
Don't think about that, think about Curley's vaseline glove!
I love Steinbeck. I've only read Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men, so speaking from just those, his writing kind of hits you with the mundaneness of life but somehow captivates you in its description, and all of a sudden you're hit with the tragedies and the feels. 
the nice part is was decently short and not drawn out like the scarlet letter...
If you go to a bad school with large classes and disruptive students though, you really can't have class discussions. 
The problem is that when you don’t have assignments tied to reading literature, you have no incentive to actually read it.

The only other way to do it is a requirement to speak up in class, and I never had a class in middle or high school that did that.
> Literature needs to be discussed, not really quizzed on and memorized

This is exactly why I LOVED my High School english classes. The teachers there knew well to include meangingful discussion about the subject matter. Everything from prose to themes was taken in and shared. 

One of the few parts of High School I truly miss. 

I read A handmaid's tale and hated it. Didn't read Huxley till I was in my thirties though.
Not a huge Dickens fan anyway and trying to reread it now after 40 years, my mind reverted back to the entire semester we dissected that book with probably the most boring teacher I’d ever had. Couldn’t get past it. Tale of Two Cities stood on its own however. 
Timequake
Welcome to the Monkey House is pretty great. The short stories are awesome. 
Have you seen the movie “Bright Star”? If not, see it right now.
And there are 3 more books!!
Do you eat animals?
You'll find that your tears have aged like a fine wine
Agreed, sometimes over analyzing is not the way to go especially if the writer actually had hidden reasons behind every single detail in the book.
It’s hard to get through the first time because of the content but nobody can make you fall in love with a pedophile like Vladimir Nabokov.   That’s why it’s imperative to read it multiple times, you miss so much on the first go-round while you’re trying so hard to convince yourself that you’re not a bad person for reading. 
I love reading, and enjoyed all the books we had to read, except that one.  I will never pick that one up again except perhaps in anger.  I'll read the Sound and the Fury again before that one.
Is that some sort of disgusting sex thing? If so I’m in 
There’s a name I haven’t heard for a while
Jesus, I forgot about that site.
The key was using Sparknotes for the themes and then skimming through to pick out some extra details to pepper your paper with to show you at least *opened* the book.

Although honestly, I read almost everything I was required to. I think the only one I could never get through was *Wuthering Heights*, because fuck any book where the main character shares a name with a cartoon cat.

Oh, and *Daniel Deronda*. Has anyone ever actually read that?
One of my teachers would have tests specifically on minute details that weren't on Sparknotes. Easy way to tell who actually read the chapter.
I see a good bit of both BNW and 1984 in our daily lives. 

Constant war, happy pills, no privacy (some self inflicted, some forced) ... I am just waiting for orgy porgy time
> Now schools are banning them

Pretty sure that 10000% not true citation desperately needed
Gotta keep one of his hands soft for his wife.
If you love Steinbeck, and want more, but with a different feel than those two, try Tortilla Flats. It is my personal favorite, and defintely connects with the dream of the common man. His autobiography Travels with Charley is also another favorite. 
If you like those kind of books then I’d recommend you to read “Madonna in a fur coat”. It’s a really interesting book. Definitely give it a shot
Yup
True, but I had English teachers that would be engaging even with a large class, and I had some that would literally say "what color was the barn in chapter 12?"
I went to a small school with pretty small class numbers. And being disruptive likely meant being kicked out of the school. Maybe 20 students, at most. Unfortunately, discussion was not part of the lesson. It was read and regurgitate information. 

Made reading great books similar to reading the dictionary. It's sad. I don't want to blame the teachers because I know most have impossible lesson plans to follow but there has to be a better way. 
There are still ways to have I dovidual engagement. But the problem is it's more work grading for the teacher and doesn't apply directly to standardized tests. It's a travesty tbh. Just reminds me of dead poets society and makes me wonder
Woosh
I told my husband to read it and his response was a along the lines of not wanting to because he couldn't stomach reading about a pedophile. There is no way to explain that it was an enjoyable (if disturbing) read to somebody who hasn't read it without seeming like a creepo yourself. 

Like... I was disgusted... But I also felt sorry for him (and dolores). And not even just pity, but a genuine wow it really sucks to love somebody you shouldn't. But also just stop. 

I need to go back and read it I think.
You would be, /u/FartIntoMyButt 
University of Tennessee did that a couple of years ago
Orgy porgy... For real. When are we going to start reaping the benefits of the dystopia
Child sex was in there too.
The thing with those books is that it's the big picture and why those things are happening and not just that they're happening. 

Cameras on your street corner?  OMG 1984.  Well wait those cameras are the modern version of a police officer on every corner.  The cameras weren't put up to spy on your every move, they're put up to pick up on crimes taking place.  Crimes which don't include having an opinion that doesn't favor the government. 

Or someone complaining about not being able to say the N-word and comparing it to the adoption of Newspeak in the book 1984. 

tl;dr: elements from these books are taken slightly out of context to prove contemporary anti-Orwellian views. 
East of Eden is also fantastic. And Cannery Row. I drove down to Salinas and Monterey just to try to mentally recreate his world. The aquarium stands on the spot where his buddy had his ocean lab.
Tortilla Flat was funny and lighthearted, I loved it.  They were always just trying to get a jug of wine.  
