Pussywillow had two healthy little girls this morning! Poppy and Petunia :)

Pussywillow is a rad name
They look like they're ready for some serious gambolling in the field.
my name is Pussywillow, n these two new babes are mine

did you Ever see a baby lamb that looked so very fine?

my hooman is so proud of me, n wanted to give credit

i begged her Pleez - not EweTube, fren - just put our pic on Reddit!


Awesome! Also what a great name for a sheep, all fluffy just like a pussywillow.
Congratulations new mamma!! Nice start to the day!!
Thanks for sharing these little spring lambs! Brightens the day of many I hope!
They're adorable. Looks like they're still getting used to their legs. Do you have a video of them by any chance? I'd love to see it. 
Have you any wool :D
Omg congratulations Pussywillow you fluffy little pooper.  Your babies are so cute I want to hold them :*(

Just look at that fluffy little bump on their heads!  And their knobby little knees
She looks like such a proud mum 
I am a grinning happy idiot - such a good pic, those names are everything, and as a dedicated yarn crafter, I see beautiful potential! Congrats!
cute Fluff cats
Not familiar with sheep. Is that a 'happy face'?
Awhh pussywhistle is such a good mom!
Is twins pretty common with sheep? I'm not a farmer and know jack shit about sheep haha. Also congrats, they look adorable 
Always blows my mind how ready to go newborn animals like this are good.

No fucks that they just came into existence, on their feet and ready to go.
Why did you name a sheep Pussywillow?
TIL what a pussywillow is.
Fucking cuuuuuuuuuute!!!! 
Congratulations mama.  Cuties
When I was a kiddo, my parents had 2 sheeps and a ram. We got several baby lambs and they were so cute to watch, specially the twins who would play together, run everywhere and wag their tails whenever it was milk time. We have a pic where one of the lamb is standing on the back of his mom (laying in the grass) while the other is waiting to jump there too.

If you can, please post some videos, it's so fun to watch.
Congratulations Pussywillow! ❤️
Thank ewe for this 
So cute babies)))) 
You must like your P words
What kind of farm is it? Wool?
Cute 😊 What breed are they, Poll Dorset?
That's a cute little fluff. Any suggestions on where I could find info starting out caring for sheep? Wanting to get 5-6 to keep my grass mowed and my dogs company.
Pussywillow
Congratulations!
Whats going to happen to them later? 
Put lamby pjs on them and take videos of them jumping around!
Hi, I’m Poppy 
You could have named the lamb anything and you chose “Pussywillow” 

God bless you
TIL goats are pretty much ready to run right outta the womb.

Edit: Sheep not goats!
Ahh, lambs.  I don't miss docking them.  I'm pretty sure my father lied when he said it didn't hurt them.  
OP can i be your boyfriend
One proud looking momma.
“Now shave my coat you cunt, it’s spring” 
Lol this has to be the UK
Just realized naming a pet Pussywillow will allow me to say pussy in front of anyone I want.  lol
Pussywillow.... amazing.
Pussywillow 😂 I love it 
Pussywillow.. heh.
You named your sheep pussywillow?
Mmmmm... mutton 
Don't kill them pls
Lots of amazing wool on mum there!
“You’ve attained the rank of: pussywillow!”
How much will it cost me to play with your baby sheep? I'll pay practically any amount.
my lamb was also named poppy. she had a hole in her head
The sweet thing is they're up and running in no time.
Congrats Pussywillow - you’re gonna be a great mom!!
How do these baby sheep come out through all that wool?
And when you eat lamb my friends, that's what you eat; baby sheep.

Pretty fucked up
I always find it odd that people name their food.
don’t let your cats near them. 
Nhame
Maybe just Willow
Whoever is on the job with naming animals on your farm should get off that job. Cute baby sheeplings though. 
The leg angle gets me 
Mmmmm they look yummy
Fuck you poppy and petunia.
It’s what kids used to call me in school minus the willow
Not when your own name is Willow :/
It is! Thank you :)
Reminds me of one of my favorite jokes, though I don’t know how well it translates to text.
sounds like a celebrities child
It's like Cumlord on YouTube.
Lol right. Rad.
You came here just to use gambol. 
They've already tried :) a little too windy for them today! 
When they aren't gambolling they are out standing in their field.
I love this!
Make a macro of this and put it on r/ilikthebred
Thanks I was about to ask “why the willow specificity instead of just willow” considering it’s kind of a funny name. 
:)
It was a splendid start! 
At first I read your comment as "Congratulations new mammal!!"  and I thought to myself hell yeah, us mammals should be more united, right on! 
Why are you congratulating OP? Shes not the mom. Pussywillow isn't reading this thread.
It was a wonderful surprise! Our other adult ewe had lambs last month, triplets, but none survived :(
I'll have to post one later!! I'm not home atm 
We will on Thursday!! All adult sheep and alpacas will be shorn :)
Yes sir, yes sir, 3 bags full!
Thank you so much!! 
Pussywhistle is my new go-to name if I start up a band.
Twins are pretty common! Some throw triplets :)
She was given to us with that name :)
Ewe are welcome :D
Thank you! 
The names may be changed, unsure at the moment :)
An everything farm really. We raise chickens and pigs as well, stuff to sustain us :) 
Giant mutts! Predominantly Leicesters and Romneys 
If you have agriculture fairs in the summer, talk to the people that raise sheep!!! 
They will be bred in about two years
We didn't name the ewe, she came named :) a lovely older couple from my parents church gave her to us! 
Sheep, not goats. But correct! 
Ah, depends on a few things 
They are being shorn Thursday :)
Maine :)
She came named :)
They won't be :)
Yes! I really want a blanket made out of her wool :)
They are! 
She is, thank you!! 
Lots of persistence 
Yes, essentially. 
These sheep aren't going to be eaten :)
Odd request, but they're too scared of the alpacas so they won't go in the barn anyways. 
If you're referring to Pussywillow, she was given to us with that name. 
Harsh :(
You can be arrested for that. 
Hi, me_irl
Yeah but your name isn't willow so shut up Gorillow... 

Wait.. 
Duuuude. Weed.
It's true. I have a gambolling problem.
"You came here just to use gambol. "

AHA! you've activated my trap card!
day officially un-brightened 
Did you eat them?
Glad I found this, I was looking at the picture wondering if you don’t sheer them when they are pregnant. She is quite furry. 
Does that name mean something? Its not a combination of words I would normally expect to hear.
Nice mix!
Is this a sanctuary for animals? :)
im a very succesful bussiness man
It's crazy. It's like if humans gave birth to kindergarteners.
That's good. 
Hope you got a discount 😆 . Really, pussywillow? 
Ignore them, don’t feed the trolls! The lambs are beautiful :)
Fuck you too.
Pussygorillow
XD you're right. Gorillow is the name I was born with.  My parents just hate me
Have you thought about seeking help? I'm sure there is a local Gambolling Anonymous program in which you can learn to frolic, skip, and dance with purpose.
Would you say that your a Gamboling Man?
No, they weren't viable. Mom didn't even clean them off :( two were stillborns, we tried to save the third. 
Its a kind of tree with white fluffy stuff on it
[Pussywillow](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pussy_willow#/media/File%3ASalix_caprea_02.jpg)
Nah, just a normal farm :)
Welp that sells it 
You just made my uterus cringe. *Shudder*
A Pussywillow is a type of tree :) their blooms look like "pussies" or cats hanging from a branch, hence the name. 
I’m declining your offer. 
That would be a pretty badass name tbh 
Does the ewe grieve under those circumstances?

That's sad. 

Can I have whichever is the one in the middle of your picture thanks. 
Whenever I hear Willow I think of Weeping Willows. Also Draynor Village in Runescape.
send pics 
PLZZZZ i hate my wife
The more you know I guess
Yeah... If I were a gorilla... Which I don't believe I am
Depends on the circumstances. 
The ewe abandoned them basically because she wanted to be back in the pasture with her buds. 
If an ewe has a healthy baby and loses it to a predator or illness later on, she may grieve. They're usually pretty good about stillbirths or lambs who aren't going to make it after the first few hours. 
Aren't we all just gorillas who forgot how to be buff?
source?
Well that’s your problem right there, you’ll never be a gorilla with that attitude. You gotta believe.
I wanna subscribe to sheep facts
