[AMA Request] - People behind lofi 24h beats to study and relax
My 5 questions:

1. What's the process behind the song selection?
2. How many of you are there, if any?
3. What's your favourite artist?
4. Do you make any income off it?
5. What's your favourite story related to this?

Formatting
u/Chillhop u/Birocratic etc
6.&nbsp; What's with the anime girls?
When we talk about lofi 24h beats are we talking about one specific channel?  Or any and all of them?  Which is the one channel most people listen to?  Is it on youtube, or elsewhere?  
Reason I ask: I found one on youtube that was highly popular but it was quite repetitive. 
As far as song selection, their entire playlist is on Spotify. I usually just listen to that instead of the YouTube feed. I assume they just find ones the like, add it to the playlist, and the YouTube feed is randomly shuffled.
* What's the process behind the song selection?

Go to Soundcloud, get the lofi songs. pick option "For share"

* How many of you are there, if any?

Songs or people? Solo running channel. Songs - Around 1K

* What's your favourite artist?

X

* Do you make any income of it?

We all make the big bucks from it. Otherwise we wouldn't do it.

* What's your favourite story related to this?

Money
I make similar music - most of which gets licensed for commercials, video games, etc. 

My prices are pretty fair. For my most popular songs you can get a license to use one for about $50. 

I make more money doing sound design for video games, films, etc. But I rely on the music for times that I don't have any sound design contracts to work on. 

I've never submitted to those channels because I'm not quite in the genre - however I'm guessing it's a mix of people getting paid and people wanting exposure. 
Whoever they are, I have spent many many hours with them!
CHILLEDCOW
I also listen to this, I was shocked to see a request as when I put it on there are only a hundred people.

Spelling.
I like bootlegboy
Why isn’t the current song/artist shown during these compilations? Sure, all the credits are available in the video details but it’s not the same thing. 
Lofi producer here, sad I'm late to this post.
It’s seems like Lo Fi Hip Hop is just Mushroom Jazz renamed. Mark Farina has been putting out those mix tapes since the early 90’s.
That's true af I'm glad you asked this
 Love this! ChilledCow is a god in my eyes. 
I know the stream you are referring to and it's not me. I've done some live streaming in the past though.

1. I pick songs I like and mix them. Once I had a few mixes up that were gaining traction,I mixed my mixes and looped them on shuffle.
2. No idea.
3. Jarjarjr.
4. Only made a little bit off of it while I was going.
5. Viewcount skyrockets during finals week. 

Ryancelcius. They stream 24 hours and on the channel they play video of a bus driving the streets all over Japan. Pretty cool
Thanks Chilledcow for helping me get through a ton of A&P homework.
One of the people behind these channels did an  ama in the Dota 2 subreddit I'll update if I can find it 
/u/ChilledCow
I have no idea what any of this is about. 
Paging steezyasfuck
Looks like I'm out of loop here. What are we talking about exactly? Links maybe?
in case anyone wants more lofi beats I have a Spotify playlist of like 1000 songs I called campfire. if interested I'll post the link
The only person that would write this post is someone who works for this company 
Who is your favorite artist in the genre right now? 

Side note mine: Mounika.
favourite artist - ikigai
Not exactly the person who streams but a regular featured artist in many of those streams I'll message a few of them and see if any are interested :) 
Anyone know where the Wolf Children live stream went? I can't find it on YouTube anymore :'(

Also, would love if the songs came to Google Play Music, since I don't use Spotify at all!
1) pick the same 5 and loop them
Lol its not a new thing 
Does lofi have lyrics or no?
Why does your lo-fi chill beats to study and relax to never leave my Youtube front page? 
I looooove this stuff. More plx
i know a lot of the OGs in the lofi hip hop community, guys like bsd.u (used to be solarr), j^p^n, YAYAYAI, haxaar. 

These guys in specific are all Canadian dudes who love the SP-404 and chopping down samples, mainly from anime. The lofi scene took off super fast because of this YouTube channel, there was a time when guys like Wun Two and FloFilz really headed the scene but now it is changing rapidly
who is lofi?
I'm a metalhead at heart but goddamn do I enjoy this genre so much. Especially when I'm painting. 
[and the Grammy goes to....](https://pics.me.me/and-the-grammy-goes-to-lofi-hip-hop-radio-24-7-30636737.png)
RemindMe! 7 days.
Hello! Please note that this is a request post, not an actual AMA. Top level comments are not required to be a question on this thread. You can find out more information about request posts [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_8._what_are_.22requests.2C.22_and_why_are_they_allowed.3F).

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Why are the songs so short? Seriously they're all like 1-1.5 minutes, on the YouTube streams or in Spotify
Crazy story? Yea, this once time this guy clicked on the video, right...
yeah, lets get these criminals in here
> 5. What's your favorite story related to this?

Once, myself and seven other Homosexuals were sucking each other's dicks and fingering each other in the ass. Then someone put on some Lofi beats and we all started doing cocaine. 
Remind me in 7 days
Nah im.good. maybe another time.
in the building
poor chillhop and his tooth
Theres a song by Birocratic called Corporate Japan that I just love because it sounds like something from GTA Chinatown wars. 
SteezyAsFuck has a lot of the beat tapes up too that you'll see on ChillHop and etc. 

[One of my personal favorites that he has hosted is Limes](https://youtu.be/rp6hJQMF18I)
lol. it's a little overboard at this point, but a lot of the artists involved in Chillhop (both the label and the subgenre at large) got some amount of influence from Nujabes / Samurai Champloo / [adult swim].

(it's also easier to find a picture of an anime girl than make or pay for your own artwork, which is super helpful when you're just starting out)
No waifu, no lifeu.
Mine all have simpsons
Is that even a question that needs to be asked?
#*[ A E S T H E T I C S ]*
[This one is into furries.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dhCeseXZEKA) the movie is called [Wolf Children](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ed1xwAtF728). Very good, my wife ended crying.
nostalgia
Big anime tiddies, that's why. 
ChilledCow is the original and best. It does get a bit repetitive if you listen for a long time, there's only about 1000 or so tracks - I definitely got to the point where I knew a lot of them.

EDIT: If anyone wants anything else to listen to I also like [this playlist](https://open.spotify.com/user/nano_chemist/playlist/65k0y0Vue4To6ORv2rhI2N?si=4sVbc7wWTzGvLjaWTgSU3g) on spotify.
That’s the name of the channel, so you probably found it
I listen to the channel on Spotify while I work. It typically contains about 100 songs that change weekly. I believe there are also channels on YouTube and other music streaming services.
Whichever has the looped anime gif.
that's the whole point. it's basically ambient noise. 
I like steezyasfucks' stream on YouTube the best. 
I'm with you. It's a little *too* idle
Not always on Spotify, some songs come from SoundCloud. 
Could I have a link please? Thanks! 
Is there a link?
thanks for answering
Out of all the artists out there....your favorite is XXXTentacion?
Any advice if I wanna do something like this to supplement my income 
How does chilledcow get money? I never got any ads when listening to the stream, or do I not stay long enough?
you don't make money you fuck
Great answer, good luck to you man :)
Totally cool if you don't want to share, but I'll ask anyway. My brother has a background in audio engineering, and he's currently really into modular synths. Do you have any career advice for him? How did you get into sound design?
I just woke up from going to Harris Wittles 34th memorial Birthday show at ucb last night. Love the username.
These 24/7 channels are always at the top of my youtube home page despite never actually listening to them. It seems to get a ton of exposure even if people arent listening.
Yup the artist don’t really win here. The channel wins. 
SteezyAsFuck has it, I usually listen to them
How do you feel about people taking your work for non-monititized youtube work or mixes? Do you feel angry like your work has been stolen or do you feel like it’s a great symbiotic relationship to get your work out there?
WOAH those mixes inspired the shit out of me when I started out making hip hop. I'd say lofi is derivative of Mushroom Jazz, but not *quite* the same
A few of my favorite tracks off those tapes would be Deadbeats - Made in the Shade and PUTS- Schooled in the Trade. Love those tracks
Search for the channel ChilledCow on YouTube. Usually running a live stream of ambient music. Great for studying or work or just relaxing. 
Ambition2 has the best stream up right now imo. 
I'm interested. 
Post it my friend. Share your playlist!
I'm interested. There are a dozen of those changes on YouTube it seems, some gaming a thousand or 2 people listening at any given time, and they steam 24 hours with no ads. And I feel like I rarely see the same artists listed on the songs so there is a decent size to the genre...
No, it’s kinda become a meme at this point 
Nah I just saw it mentioned a few days ago

https://www.reddit.com/r/youtubehaiku/comments/8dh9j1/poetry_algorithms/dxnhlp4/
Knxwledge for me
RŮDE makes me feel things, but I just got into it and don't know very many others
In love with a ghost
How do you feel about people using your work for non-monititized youtube work or mixes? Do you feel angry like your work has been stolen or do you feel like it’s a great symbiotic relationship to get your work out there?
It's still there, but they changed the photo.  Their channel is chillhop records 
Really?
I found you on Google play 2 or so years ago and your music is excellent.
How's your fiber intake lately?
Just dropping by to say Beets 1 & 2 were constantly on repeat throughout college for me. Good stuff
Love your music man!
How do you feel about people using your tracks for non-monititized youtube work or mixes? Do you feel angry like your work has been stolen or do you feel like it’s a great symbiotic relationship to get your work out there?
I can't say how many times I've been listening to Limes and driving around a night, it's an absolute gem. Thank god it's on Spotify. A lot of these types of albums don't get up there. It took Jinsang a while but he's uploaded them now. 
Any other favs? I really like the jinsang and Jaeden Camstra ones 
A lot of the tracks also use sound clips from anime as well such as cowboy bebop
Nujabes was great. RIP
A Toonami/Adult Swim connection does make sense to me, it's pretty much the genre of the background music in all their interstitial stuff, right?  I guess it's become tradition at this point then and other people are doing the same even if they don't care about anime?
But I believe it goes deeper, I feel that these lo-fi creators or those involved in chillhop are trying to recapture a moment in past times, a fleeting memory that fills us with Saudade. Interestingly enough [adult swim] and Nujabes contributed heavily to this sub-genre. Nujabes melancholic type music combined with the bizarre and eccentric illustrations that [adult swim] presented with their "bumps" makes us viewers question the reality of those "bumps".  Why are they made like that? What was the purpose? Why do they make us feel sad? 
Wait is Nujabes actually anime?.. fuck
b l a z e b u s what up
But it's practically *all* of them, across dozens of different channels.  Why?
Yes 
the real answer
Sorry, but it's [ a e s t h e t i c s ]. Needs to be all lower case.
Holy fuck, I've listened to that mix a million times and Wolf Children is my SO's favorite movie... How did I never realize the connection??
"And here's some human music"
It sure beats listening to the same 8 songs on top 40 radio at work all day though. I remember one day in 2012ish walking into one area of work and hearing "DO YOU EVERY FEEEEEL LIKE A SHOPPING BAAAAG" (Fireworks) 4 times, every time I walked into a specific area of work. It was on repeat enough that I managed to always catch it when it came up again. It made me realize how terrible radio really has become. 
I love chilled cow and ambition. Top of my list every time.
ChilledCow is the one I listen to. Youtube randomly recommended that stream to me in like January of 2017 and I've been using it as background music ever since.
“only” 1,000 
Can you tell me the one that starts out with "we're smoking reefer and you don't want any part of this shit". I used to hear that one often but forgot the name.
Isn't Chillhop Music the original? Considering they're the actual label for a lot of the smaller time stuff.
I remember listening to soma fm on groove shark or something. I miss being me from those days.
I prefer j ^ p ^ n
> only about 1000 or so tracks

> only
They have it on Spotify??? Whattt that’s so cool how do I search for them. I’m still a Spotify newbie. Began using it for 2 months now 
Chillhop (the label that's helped push this music out there) has a bunch of great playlists on Spotify. Here's [the most popular one](https://open.spotify.com/user/chillhopmusic/playlist/0CFuMybe6s77w6QQrJjW7d?si=KZCPzlExTYuGmStveqcmpA)
Chillhop has a couple playlists on Spotify. They have a curated one, with more recent tracks, and then a "master" playlist that has everything they've used 
They all have that 
Ambition or 7cloud
I find that a majority are from SoundCloud 
https://open.spotify.com/user/1184335582/playlist/3ZyGBnvNhzZSltbrv97j5S?si=t57WnBbqQyeX_axiuqiiOw ChilledCow has a lot of pretty good stuff on both YouTube and Spotify.
https://open.spotify.com/user/chillhopmusic/playlist/74sUjcvpGfdOvCHvgzNEDO?si=gqPLYXkYTSuuvX_QDUyuBQ here's another one.
You mean Zelda? 
https://open.spotify.com/user/chillhopmusic/playlist/74sUjcvpGfdOvCHvgzNEDO?si=gqPLYXkYTSuuvX_QDUyuBQ

https://open.spotify.com/user/1184335582/playlist/3ZyGBnvNhzZSltbrv97j5S?si=XyLtML6xRweX8HwxjCTVLw
What in XXXTarnation?
No, X as I have none. I don't listen to lofi myself that much, I just livestream it because it's popular and people like it. 

I listen to it sometimes but not often so I don't have a "Go to artist"

When picking songs I just scroll though soundcloud and "part listen" to them then just download.
X is only short for one artist, my dude - The Artist Formerly Known As He Who Gon' Give It To Ya.
Is it right to call him an artist?
Youtubers don't make money -Lickonmybbc

Good meme. 

I can have ads playing when people open the stream, Donations (Either via Streamlabs, Youtube sponsors & superchat), Subscribers which leads to viewers on my other videos I upload.
lmao what? Yes he does
We get it, no one is paying you for sex. Just because it doesn't happen to you doesn't mean it never happens.  What does that have to do with this topic? Just need to vent? 
Best advice in my experience is to follow this path:

1. Get good! He probably is good but should investigate all his competition - which will always be "better". Don't get hung up on perfection but try to emulate what they do well (volume, punch, mixing, mastering, etc.) 

2. Finish projects! No more half measures. You have to start finishing projects and releasing them. 

3. Organize! Have a folder for your business/music. Name everything clearly. Inside that folder have a folder for every song. In the songs folder have .wav, m4a, mp3, FLAC versions. Also worth saving the DAW project here too. Make loops of your tracks in case a customer wants a certain part for something backgroundy and long (How it's Made style videos love that)

4. Build a website on bandzoogle. They could use squarespace or wix but bandzoogle is really good, hosts a ton of data (upload 100 songs etc.) And has a simple layout. 

https://brianjamesproductions.com

5. Market in a nice way. Nobody is going to randomly find you to buy music, so you do have to put yourself out there. However don't be a jerk! So many sync licensing producers/beat makers have this arrogant Mr. #1 worldwide millionaire vibe....it drives me nuts. Just be yourself and if you see projects that go with your style reach out personally and offer some of your tracks or to work one on one to make a new custom track. 

Remember there are libraries out there with 1000s of songs...to stand out you need that human element or your music has to be the best ever. 

If you don't want to do this as a career sell your music to libraries like cdbaby songly and whatever - might have luck with that!
Youtube channels that are currently live get priority (I think)
You can’t just mention some channel and not link to it. What am I supposed to just open YouTube and manually type it out like a fucking animal?
It is a finely aged genre that has been under the radar for a while. Production of the genre blew up around the release of Samurai Champloo
STEEZY is solid
not enough beets
I love you both
which speaks to how deeply it's inspired many people in this scene, and how that inspiration gets passed down and perpetuated.
[I came across a bebop](https://youtu.be/rDZKTrhLRdU) track the other week. Shit like this gives me goosebumps when I listen to it.
Mystline!
It's a play a Jun Seba.  His stuff has been on and off Spotify and it's really nice to listen to on a drive.
It draws people in and a lot of guys who make these beats grew up in the toonami/adult swim era which is known for its chill beats and dope art 
Because anime is more attractive than real life. 
Because the people behind them like the aesthetic of anime girls.

Is this something that you really don't have the mental ability to come to the conclusion of? Or are you under the delusion that there needs to be a deeper reason than that?
[deleted]
Human music? I like it 
There is a great remix of that on the playlist actually!
^^^boop ^^boop ^^^boop
Some of the main radio stations in the UK have no repeat guarantees from 9-5 every day so its not that bad. It's still mostly the same songs each day I'm sure but at least you'll only hear them once during an entire work day. Absolute radio did it first I think, Heart has recently started doing it I thimkkk, and I'm sure there's another one doing it.

But still there's the ads... It's like half the time you listen to ads now and most radio stations sync their ads together It seems so you can't escape them. 
> hearing "DO YOU EVERY FEEEEEL LIKE A SHOPPING BAAAAG" (Fireworks) 4 times

I wouldn't mind that much if it was [the JonTron cover,](https://youtu.be/Oy_JlG7C-T8) but the original would drive me insane after play two.
Oh god I worked at McDonalds during that whole Katy Perry era and you just reminded me of that shit blasting in the lobby every night
There's a really great publically funded radio station in my city, Milwaukee, that streams online and through their app. Its called 88.9 Radio Milwaukee and plays a great variety of fantastic music.
That's why I have my own extensive music and just shuffle all
I did a *lot* of studying and ran out of beats.
In terms of a 24/7 stream ChilledCow is the original.
There's also a Spotify curated playlist called "lush lo-fi" (maybe no dash). Check that out. 
There's also a Spotify curated playlist called "lush lo-fi" (maybe no dash). Check that out. 
It's in the video description on YouTube, open it up on your phone and it'll open up the Spotify playlist 
That's awesome. Thanks for sharing.
Lack of ability to detect satire noted ;)        (Hint: it's in the period).
I couldn't find that second link. TY!
A rap artist whose music is characterized by its low fidelity sound, aggressive lyrics and heavy beats. It's like a mix of horrorcore, gangsta rap, and industrial with some metal influence. I honestly don't think it's bad, but I'm a metal head and metal heads often like this style if they like rap. His hardest songs are good to lift weights to. 

Edit: oh, my brain skipped over your spelling...you were making a joke lol. 
X is also a pretty sick LA punk band from the 80s
Ah, thank you for clarifying. 
The fact that he's a piece of shit doesn't mean he's not an artist.
Yes, music is an artistic medium. 
Which channel is yours?
Thanks so much for all this. He's very talented, but he is an introvert and has trouble marketing himself. I think this will really help him out.
And similar music has been around for ages. It's like, ambient trip hop maybe? Some melding of hip hop stylistics and ambient unobtrusiveness.
Random history. Believe at your own risk. 
Solid as fuck
I like steezy more as a curator than their own beats personally. I feel like they really have their finger on the pulse of chillhop that isnt merely background music
Wait, are you that dope musician? I love programming to your music!
You, J^p^n and bsd.u are my favorites. I just wanted to say thanks for the good vibes :)
[Tomppabeats - I live all alone](https://youtu.be/WntDrmuJ-eU) , this one too
great now I need to rewatch Cowboy Bebop again
I've heard it a few times on the streams and love it. I also like the one with them in jail talking about past lovers
Fucking hell, dude. This is dope as hell, but that video is an emotional powder keg.
RIP :( I’m very sad we will never hear more from him, his music is so relaxing and seems to make the whole world around you just melt into the rhythm
I really like Nujabe’s luv sic songs, just never knew it was anime music. 
It's more ａｅｓｔｈｅｔｉｃ
Imma have to pass on that
Sick on bro u got him 420 blaze up
Thing is though that that's not why.

It used to be slow traveling through nature and city scapes, when Chillhop was the #1 and everyone wanted that style. Lofi as an offshoot of that, mixing with vaporwave mix culture, eventually took over and the most popular alternatives were the one with the girl in a red sweater sitting at her desk nodding off and similar images because *those* people liked the style. *Now* it's every single one because clones have more potential for success when you're scrolling through a search. 
Your defensiveness is rather telling.
In case you are wondering why the downvote:  you answered his question with wayyy to much anger.
Dude wow chill out
Maybe

https://soundcloud.com/canti_god_of_the_black_flames/human-music
That’s probably why he said it
"Call me" ♥️

https://soundcloud.com/90sflav/callme
A lot of the "syndicated" playlist programs restaurants and stores can subscribe too offer the same "no daily repeat" guarantee. The problem is most owners/managers don't really care enough to have the station changed, or select anything besides the standard top 40 preset. Not to mention the places where corporate controls the radio remotely. 

When I was a shift supervisor at a regional CalMex place, I came across our subscription and changed the station from "Hits of the 80s!!" to "80s Mix, No Repeats!" and nobody noticed anything aside from not hearing how fine Mickey was 20 times a day. 
Heart with a no repeat playlist?

Nonsense, they've still got 20 years on their licensing of 'Jennifer Paige - Crush', and they're gonna play it every 45 minutes until then.
Holy shit! He's got some pipes!
My god i never knew he could sing this well. Also all of those animators were PROS. Holy shit am I glad I saw that
That video made me really happy for some reason. Thank you.
I was subscribed to both channels before they each started a 24/7 stream. Chillhop was the first one
Jazz Vibes is great, also Chill Lofi Study Beats
I've gotten so much work done this semester while listening to that playlist. 
Using a full stop doesn’t signify satire
Is this my very own first whoosh?
There's also a bunch of videos online  of him beating the hell out of people he's arguing with and girlfriends he's almost killed. I don't care if he's the best musician out there, no one should support his incredibly vile life choices. 
Someone on reddit who doesn’t mercilessly hate x. Wow good shit 
Its only that I believe that artists are those who make art, not products. You could rightly say that he is an ertentainer, but does he make art?
https://www.reddit.com/r/LofiHipHop/comments/52xo14/the_history_of_lofi_hiphop/

Here are LH producers describing their inspiration. It primarily revolves around the producer Nujabes, as many cite him as their source. Many of his samples are still used today.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samurai_Champloo_Music_Record:_Departure

Here is the OST he produced for the cartoon, Samurai Champloo. You can google the influence of Samurai Champloo on Toonami/[adult-swim]
yep that's me! hell yeah, thanks for listening :D
post history seems to indicate so... cowboy bebop was the front door, but this guy really got me started on this genre, too
Truth to that.  Whenever I listen to Feather, or really anything, it instantly makes me feel better.  Even if I've had a personally tough day, things just fade and everything flows.
His album songs aren’t anime music but he did write a lot of the music for the anime “Samurai Champloo” so he’s popular amongst weebs 
Oh gotcha!  Misunderstood when I first read it. 
a u t i s t i c
No worries, I’ll take his please. 
Lmao
It's 4/21
Nope, not wondering about the downvote at all.
My man!
On the internet it does. It was also a silly thing for me to say but as usual the Reddit hater brigade of doesn't-get-it-erers has to downvote my otherwise helpful tip to the uninformed.
Its like seeing a teacher in the wild. Or when you catch a glimpse of someone's underwear brand. Just something about it that's magical.
Dudes a fucking cunt and sounds super pretentious talking about his music but I like it so whatever
He's literally Chris Brown x10. Nobody should be mentioning him at all without bringing up all the shit he's done. 
Congrats! You are now a moderator of /r/im14andthisisdeep 
As much as we hate people like xxx and Chris Brown they are both as much as an artist as someone like Kanye West or Eminem.
Art has no no barrier for entry. Just because you might think it's highly derivative and unoriginal, or created with the intention of turning a profit doesn't mean it's not art. Artists have to eat too.
Just like all art it would depend on who you're asking.
He is a musician. A kind of... shittty.... one, but a musician nonetheless.

What makes something art is the intent of the creater. Artistry is NOT in the eye of the beholder, so it is not up to us to decide if what he does is art or not. We can, however, agree that he's an incredibly mediocre rapper with a fairly juvenile poetic concept and passable but forgettable production.
YIKES lmao. I’ll still bump his shit. He’s got some really nice tracks
Down votes cause you're all delicate little pussies who can't handle a joke
why are you so angry?
*snap*

Yes!
I’ve never come across this on the internet 
I think alike and don't feel ashamed by pirating  his song. 
I rather say that X is an "artist" that could mod that sub
Yeah.  Chris Brown is a shitty person but I would be lying if I said I didn’t enjoy some of his music. 
Or Mozart or Picasso :)
imagine being this insecure.
Did the downvotes trigger you?
i wasn't going to downvote you then i saw you being a sensitive pussy who cant handle downvotes or the fact his 'joke' wasnt funny.
Seems like you're a "delicate little pussy" who can't handle downvotes.
There's a helpful guide out there... https://www.google.com/amp/s/articles.pennlive.com/news/2016/06/a_guide_to_punctuation_on_the.amp
being insecure would be me refusing to play him any more
I banged yo momma
Now you're just being racist
First of all a university professor isn’t likely to be well versed in Internet forum etiquette. 

Secondly, he says the full stop is to show anger, not satire. 
Dude good music is good music, why do you care if it's from an anime or not?
Wrong. "The period according to Crystal no longer means to stop but is instead a show of anger, irony and insincerity" IRONY and INSINCERITY (i.e. "sarcasm") buddy. Now I'm angry because you purposefully omitted 2/3rds of the supposed definition to skew your absurd argument. Congratulations.
Yea like wut LMFAO 
I don’t bro! I said I’ll still play his shit. Nujabes is the bomb, i think you’re just misunderstanding me!
Irony and insincerity to communicate anger, not satire, according to the two examples given. You also ignored my first point, and seem to think that being unhelpful to the first OP trying to find the video qualifies as “satire”
