"Dis my spot"

I keep my wiener in my pants too.
Ah yes, dachshunds always look for the warmest, stinkiest place to cuddle up in.
How does it feel to have the biggest wiener in your pants on Reddit?
I'm not sure I would call somebody into the bathroom to film this...
Someone's in there with this guy
Both my cat and my mini-dachshund do this, though not at the same time.
Awe my dachshund use to do this too as a pupper. I love them
“Ahhh it’s so comfy in here, I don’t want to leave...” 
It smells like farts and ass in there, that’s why he likes it.
fuck off Gallowboob.
CUT YOUR TOENAILS!!!
He knows
Dis my spot... it was made for me!
It's warm and it's cozy and it smells like the human
Goddamn, bro. Take care of your toenails.
Just pull up your pants. 
OK, cutest doxie ever.
L O N G B O Y E LIKES PANT
Someone else had to film this 🤔
r/catsinpants but with a doggo
Now I want a weiner, dog.
Wait..
Was kangaroo in past life...
My cats have done this several times. I have thought about taking a picture or video of them but then I remember that I'm on the toilet and I'm not keen on taking pictures of myself in that position. 

It is adorable as fuck when they do it though and I love sharing their adorableness so I'm torn. 
Fucking gallowboob
Dog hair in my underwear, that's my fetish.
I can’t stand the cuteness ... “my spot”. 
That glance at the end. "wut?" 
So basically transfer of fleas to crotch 
I'm glad my Weiner dog doesn't do this anymore. Now he just sits in front of me and stares.
My cats enjoy that spot too
"Is that a Dachshunds in your shorts or are you just happy to see me?"
This belongs in r/aww and r/eyebleach
This belongs in r/trashy
that's fucking dirty
r/whyweretheyfilming
There's something a little fishy about that spot
Your nails are beautiful
Gives new meaning to Banana Hammock. 
Nice wiener, dog.
Who is recording this...and why?
Just take a moment to realise, no matter how inadvertently, no matter how little of the person is in view, we are watching someone poop with a dog hiding in their dropped shorts. 
My kitties used to do this. They loved to chill with me while I was pooping 
So... who’s filming? And why?
who’s filming??
Who is filming this?
Wait... whos filming🤔
Why the long face, doggo?
Where else should a Wiener endup?
Was someone filming while you were on the loo, or was that you?
Keep your wiener in your pants!
That’s a shite hound
Please by other shoes. Any other shoes.
my cat does this too
I fostered a litter of kittens that did this.  I'd find four kitties in my pants every time I went to the toilet.  It was especially fun trying to remove them from sweat pants.  We all had a great time.  
Special edition of /r/catsinpants
haha
I want the one

"Video of a man playing with his large black weiner on the toilet goes viral. Tonight at 11"
My cat did this when he was a baby and it was so cute. He still does it, but he’s close to 13 lbs now (still growing!) and it’s not as cute. I still love it though lol
He's in a shitty place at the moment
I, too, like to get in my woman's drawers
My cat does this constantly, usually I end up leaving whatever pants or shirt I was wearing on the bathroom floor with her inside and just put on something else.
Omg I want one
 I had a cat that did this
My chihuahuas used to do the same thing!
My cat does this :)
r/dachshund
"Why's your dog sitting under there?"

Underwear.
I mean...he is kind of right
He is just channeling his inner joey.
Meanwhile someone is taking s poo and possibly another filming. Still adorable tho 
http://lmgtfy.com/?q=pedicure+near+me
Equal parts r/dogsinpants and r/clipthoseclaws
Same problem I had with a ferret yesterday.
“Good enough for his balls, good enough for me.” 
That lady is taking a shit.
Who's holding the camera?
Ayo! Relevant short story time.

My family's dog from when I was little was a miniature dauchsand who lives  to 16 years. We had to put him down when I was a freshman in high school. Shortly after, my dad surprised us with another miniature dauchsand. Obviously it wasn't the same, but she was the sweetest! Not loud, not too ADHD, just a sweet little puppy who surprisingly seemed to like me the most. 

I played a lot of PC games then, and she still wanted to sit with me. One day, I picked her up and she was kinda cold, so I lifted the front of my shirt and she curled up under it and it kept her warm. From then on, every time I would start playing on the PC, she would hop up and paw at my shirt to get under it so she could sleep on me and be warm. 

There aren't any shenanigans or anything else to that, but seeing this reminded me of her. She's been gone a few years now, but I still think about her all the time, especially when I see things like this. 
His little wiener is adorable.
If dogs have such sensitive noses, why arent they repulsed by gross human smells.  
My cat does this lol
Clip your toe nails 
My dog did this when she was a pup. So cute.
You're still here?
Can’t keep my wiener out of my pants?
r/dogsinpants but it’s not exact like  r/catsinpants
Nothing like being interrupted by company when quietly trying to drop a deuce. 
Is that a Weiner dog between your legs or are you just happy to see me
My oldest ferret used to follow me in the bathroom and would do this and start sleeping while I was taking a dump. 
Damn ferret would always try to sleep where it smells the most of us. Old socks, work boots and the laundry basket. We had to account for them making sure none were missing when starting the laundry. 
Lol good times
Must be a wiener thing.
u/cbg1986
r/whyweretheyfilming
He likes the smell of your vagina!
i love when people let their pets lay in the shit/grool-stained underwear.
I want him! 😭❤️😍
Anyone know if that gurl was peeing or pinching a loaf?
I don't 😉
Good job! 
He has no choice feelsbadman 
Who’s filming this?
Smells like ass
Is true. Laying in bed now, doxie sandwiched between my legs. 
And that place has plenty of empty space
My wiener is too big, it wont fit in my pants anymore. 

:(


Well it's GallowBoob. So, not his gif.
Not bad.
Well maybe that's why your karma is in the toilet, buddy
It doesn’t seem like they have any undies in those pants so it’s probably a regular occurrence that they decided to film
Exactly what I was wondering. Who the hell would even come in to film this 😂
well... what would you call.someone in to the bathroom to film?
My first thought. Shitting is highly classified and not a sharing experience. 

If there was anyway I could I avoid being there when I go, I would not be in the room.
Can't tell if it's a girl or a guy with completely hairless legs and manicured toenails....o.O
Almost weirder that its *not* at the same time.. as if they organize their schedules so to never reach a conflict.

"You get his pants MWF I get them TRSa, Sunday is the day of the Lord."
my cat does this when i wear boxers (after my last breakup i kept all my exes underwear and they comfy), and he tries to when i wear panties but he can’t seem to understand he won’t fit and bites my ankles in frustration. if your pets were to do this at the same time, record for front page purposes please
r/catsinpants
Do you not know how to close a door?
My full grown dachshund mix still does it too this day the little creeper.
My dachshund tries to violate the laws of physics by having two bodies occupy the same space at the same time. 

I love that guy. 
How to get in your pants 😉😉
I have toenails like this. Every now and again they catch on my sheet in bed, and I think of cutting them.

But then I'm like 'why bother' and don't.
I saw nothing cute in this video because I couldn’t get past the toenails. Sweet Jesus. 
did you mean to type  r/catsinpants ?, I'm a bot beep boop and this action was performed automatically
r/catsinpants
And /r/WhyWereTheyFilming
You belong in /r/trashy 
Cute puppy doing cute things.
The dog probably does this frequently and they wanted to capture it on film?
did you mean to type  r/dachshund ?, I'm a bot beep boop and this action was performed automatically
Wtf are you doing in your underwear to make it grool stained?!?
Every dog or cat owner lays in their pets shit in some way unless they wash their pets' paws when they do their shit too.
she was probably going number 3
Well I'm allowed in school districts.
This guy fucks.
I LIKE WHAT YOU GOT
There's always a choice. Sometimes you even get records!
[Correct!](https://imgur.com/gallery/CVk5WNs)
Why do they insist on getting in between them shins
Same here!
[deleted]
Fucking destroyed 
All my karma is toilet adjacent.
You both don't even have that much.
Or someone called the commandos
A significant other, sibling, or really close friend probably
Dachshund owners.
Pretty sure his boxers are on
His other dog.
The camera man.
Nothing less than one Katie Couric. 
Not sure about legs but those seem like guy hands 
To me the toenails just look like they haven't been trimmed and the big toe looks chipped. That was actually the first thing that made me think it was a guy.
Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy.
I had no idea that was a thing. I'm glad my cat never picked up the habit!
Because you make holes in your socks and shoes. Unless they are always bare and you use your toes as tools.
It’s true. Your mom and I hang out there a lot.
I did bot, my phone is all about capitalization of the first letter. 
ever seen a woman's underwear?
Oh look at mister good morals here,allowed in a school district.
Or within 200 feet of a Chuck E. Cheese...
Kinda sounds like you shouldn't be.
Nahh just intense masturbation.
I guess they like being with other wieners
It's the perfect spot.  They fit so perfectly along your legs, and its a feedback loop of warmth.
They wanted to go where no man has gone before!
They're hunting dogs and like to burrow. They were meant for hunting weasels and he like. 
Weird, bro 
I usually call my mom.
None of which are allowed in during a crap.
That's a dude with those toenails??
That’s not a very nice thing to say about a lady 
Then again it could be an Asian guy or something. A lot of my Asian friends are like totally hairless (guys and girls).
They look like big, good, strong hands, don't they?
We need to see the Adam's Apple to be sure!
... that's never happened.
ha! my goodness that is clever.
Does that look like a woman to you?
Smd some people.
[deleted]
They are naturally attracted to the smell of fromunda cheese
Well that other guy did say he was in bed and implied his crotch area was stinky. Maybe he should at least shower. 
How are you typing with busted arms?
That’s probably the girl Seinfeld dated for a bit
A lot of my Asian friends are complete opposite (guys and 1 girl)
I'm very glad. Maybe your toes are nice and bulbous.
Shake my... dong?
Some people's children
That was two years ago.
I want you to know I just threw up a little in my mouth from ur comment
How good do you smell after sleeping 8 hours with a dachshund curled up in your legs?  
"Oh look, an eyelash ... wake a wish!"
--poof--
"Didn't come true ..."
Well, yeah!
slow clap
I thought Suck My Dick
Like a pack of Oscar Meyers. 
An old lady screamed at me... :(
She's probably just jealous 
