Two clownfish, Marlin and Coral, admire their new home in the Great Barrier Reef, Australia, and their clutch of 400 eggs. After a brief play fight, they spot a hungry barracuda staring at them. Coral tries to save the eggs, and the barracuda attacks, knocking Marlin unconscious. He wakes up to find Coral and all but one of the eggs have been eaten by the barracuda; Marlin names this last egg Nemo.
On the first day of school, Marlin embarrasses Nemo during a field trip. While Marlin talks to the teacher, Mr. Ray, Nemo sneaks away from the reef towards a boat, and is captured by a scuba diver. As the boat departs, one of the divers accidentally knocks his diving mask overboard. Marlin chases after the boat and meets Dory, a blue tang who suffers from short term memory loss. Marlin and Dory meet a clan of sharks, Bruce, Anchor, and Chum, who claim to be vegetarians. Marlin discovers the diver's mask, and notices an address written on it. When he argues with Dory, and accidentally gives her a nosebleed, the blood causes Bruce to lose control of himself, and enter a violent feeding frenzy. The pair escape from Bruce.
Meanwhile, Nemo is placed in a fish tank in a dentist’s office, where he meets the Tank Gang, led by Gill. They learn Nemo is to be given to the dentist's niece Darla, who has killed previous fish given to her. Gill devises a plan to escape: jam the tank's filter with a pebble so the dentist will put the fish in plastic bags to clean the tank, then roll out the window and into the harbor. Nemo attempts to jam the filter, but fails, almost dying in the process.
After the mask falls into a trench in the deep sea, Dory and Marlin struggle to escape an anglerfish in the trench. Dory finds the diving mask, and reads the address as 42 Wallaby Way, Sydney. As Dory finishes reading the address on the mask, Marlin is able to trap the Anglerfish, using the eyepiece of the mask. To her own disbelief, Dory remembers the address on her own despite her short-term memory loss. After receiving directions to Sydney from a school of moonfish, Marlin and Dory encounter a bloom of jellyfish that traps them, and nearly stings them to death. Marlin loses consciousness, and wakes on the back of a sea turtle named Crush, who takes Marlin and Dory on the East Australian Current. Marlin tells the details of his long journey with Dory and a group of young sea turtles, led by Squirt, Crush's son. News of his quest spreads across the ocean.
Near the harbor, a pelican named Nigel flies to the dentist's office, and brings news of Marlin's efforts. Inspired, Nemo makes a second attempt to jam the filter. He succeeds, but the dentist installs a new high-tech filter before they can escape.
After leaving the Current, Marlin and Dory are engulfed by a blue whale. Inside the whale's mouth, Marlin desperately tries to escape, while Dory communicates with the whale, which carries them to Sydney Harbour and expels them through his blowhole. They meet Nigel, and after helping the pair escape from a massive flock of seagulls, he takes them to the dentist's office. Darla has just arrived, and the dentist is handing Nemo to her. Nemo plays dead to save himself as Nigel arrives, causing Darla to scream. Upon seeing Nemo, Marlin mistakenly believes he is dead. After Nigel is violently thrown out by the dentist, Gill helps Nemo escape into a drain that leads to the ocean.
Depressed, Marlin leaves Dory, and begins to swim home. Dory meets Nemo when he reaches the ocean, but she has lost her memory. Eventually, Dory's memory returns after she reads the word "Sydney" on a drainpipe. She reunites Nemo with Marlin, but is caught in a fishing net with a school of grouper. Nemo enters the net, and orders the group to swim downward to break the net, enabling them to escape. After returning home, Marlin and Dory proudly watch Mr. Ray carry Nemo and his friends to school. Before the credits, the filter breaks down, and the tank fish escape the tank and into the harbor, but find that they are still in their plastic bags.


