Awakening from a dream of Gandalf the Grey battling the Balrog, Frodo Baggins and his friend Samwise Gamgee find themselves lost on their way to Mordor and soon become aware of being stalked by Gollum, former owner of the One Ring, capturing him with a sympathetic Frodo deciding to use Gollum as a guide to Mordor, despite Sam’s objections. Meanwhile, Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli pursue the Uruk-hai to save their companions Merry and Pippin. The Uruk-hai are joined by Orcs from Isengard, the two groups ambushed by Rohirrim, the exiled army of Rohan with the two Hobbits escaping into Fangorn Forest where they meet the Ent Treebeard. Aragorn’s group later meets the Rohirrim and their leader Éomer, who reveals that their king Théoden is being manipulated by Saruman’s servant Grima Wormtongue into turning a blind eye to Saruman's forces running rampant in Rohan. While tracking down the Hobbits in Fangorn, Aragorn’s group encounters a resurrected Gandalf, who came back after his death in Moria to help save Middle-earth.
Aragorn's group travels to Rohan’s capital of Edoras, where Gandalf releases Théoden from Saruman’s influence with Wormtongue is banished. After learning about Saruman's plans to wipe out Rohan with his Uruk-hai army, Théoden decides to move his citizens to Helm's Deep, an ancient fortress that has provided refuge to Rohan's people in times past, while Gandalf departs to acquire the aid of the Rohirrim. Aragorn builds a friendship with Théoden’s niece, Éowyn, who quickly becomes infatuated with him. During a Warg attack, Aragorn falls off a cliff into a river, but is found by his horse Brego and taken to Helm’s Deep. The Uruk-hai army arrives at Helm’s Deep, finding a makeshift army of civilians and Elves from Lothlórien waiting for them as a nightlong battle follows before the the Uruk-hai breach the fortress.
At Fangorn, having met Gandalt prior with Treebeard intent to keep them save, Merry and Pippin convince him to take the Hobbits to Ishgard following an Ent council where Treebeard's kin agree to not participate in the war. Upon seeing the destruction around Isengard has become, Treebeard summons the Ents to storm the Isengard while drowning the orcs in the resulting flood with Saruman stranded in his tower. Treebeard sent some of the Fangorn's trees to Helm's Deep as Aragorn convinces a despairing Théoden to ride out with him to meet their enemy. Gandalf and the Rohirrim arrive at sunrise, turning the tide of the battle and decimating the Uruk-hai while those remaining flee and are slaughtered by the trees. Despite this win, Gandalf warns that Sauron's retaliation will be terrible and swift.
Meanwhile, finding himself now loyal to Frodo after taking him and Sam through the Dead Marshes, Gollum convinces the Hobbits of another entrance besides the Black Gate. Frodo and Sam are later captured by the Rangers of Ithilien under by Faramir, brother of the late Boromir. After torturing Gollum while installing him with the notion that he was betrayed when Frodo saves him from being killed, Faramir learns of the One Ring and takes his captives to take him to Gondor to win his father's respect. But while in the Gondorian city of Osgiliath, Sam revealing that Boromir was driven mad by the ring and driving of a Nazgûl that almost captured Frodo, Faramir guides them and Gollum out of the city while warning the hobbits of the creature within Cirith Ungol which Gollum is taking them to. Even after learning the truth, Gollum still felt hurt the apparent betrayal and decides to reclaim the Ring by leading Frodo and Sam to “Her” once at Cirith Ungol.


