How to make Haleem - A wholesome Hyderabadi dish made of meat and cereal served garnished with fried onions, mint and lemon wedges.
Hyderabad’s 400-year-old culinary history, like its culture, is unmatched by any other state in India.  Of all the Muslim cuisines, Hyderabadi is the only one in the sub-continent that can boast of a major vegetarian section. This has much to do with the local influences. Considering that the elite of the erstwhile Hyderabad state came from the north of India and was almost entirely Muslim, this is a little surprising. The nation’s vegetarians, of course, stand to gain by it.
Some of the salient features of Hyderabadi food are the key flavours of coconut, tamarind, peanuts and sesame seeds. The main spice is chilli, which is used in abundance and is the reason for the one word used to describe Hyderabadi cuisine - fiery!
The cuisine draws its flavour from two rich legacies - the Deccan cuisine of Nizams and the spicy Andhra style of food, laced with mustard, garlic and chillies and eaten with doles of chutney and pickle.

Prep Time : 3.30-4 hour

Cook time : 1.30-2 hour

Serve : 4

Level Of Cooking : Difficult

Taste : Spicy

Ingredients for Haleem Recipe
Broken wheat 1/2 inch cubes 500 grams
Boneless Mutton 1/2 cup
Split Bengal gram (chana dal) 1 tablespoon
Split black gram skinless (dhuli urad dal) 1 tablespoon
Split green gram skinless (dhuli moong dal) 1 tablespoon
Yogurt 1 cup
Salt to taste
Green chilli paste 1 tablespoon
Ginger-garlic paste 1 tablespoon
Caraway seeds (shahi jeera) 1 teaspoon
Black peppercorns 7-8
Deep fried onions 1 cup + for decoration
Garam masala powder 1 teaspoon
Mutton stock 6 cups
Fresh mint leaves 10-12 + 1 sprigs
Fresh coriander leaves 2 tablespoons
Pure ghee 1/4 cup
Lemon wedges for garnishing
Method
Step 1
Soak the broken wheat in 2 cups of water for 3-4 hours. Soak all the dals separately in 2 cups of water for 3-4 hours. Drain the broken wheat and the dals.
Step 2
Mix mutton with yogurt and salt in a bowl and set aside to marinate for ½ hour. Put the broken wheat and the dals in a deep non-stick pan, mix well and cook for a few minutes.
Step 3
Add a little water if required. Add the marinated mutton and mix well. Add green chilli paste, ginger-garlic paste, caraway seeds, black peppercorns, ½ cup deep-fried onions, garam masala powder and mutton stock and mix well.
Step 4
Add mint and coriander leaves. Mix well, cover and cook for 40-45 minutes. Uncover and remove the cooked mutton cubes and keep them in a bowl.
Step 5
Blend the rest of the mixture directly in the pan with the help of a hand blender, while it is still cooking. Stir well and add ghee and mix.
Step 6
Add the cooked mutton cubes and remaining fried onions and mix well. Serve hot garnished with fried onions and lemon wedges and a mint sprig.