  The film consists of four major sections, all of which, except the second, are introduced by superimposed titles.  The film consists of four major sections, all of which, except the second, are introduced by superimposed titles.  The Dawn of Man[edit]  The Dawn of Man  The Dawn of Man  [edit]  [  [  edit  edit  ]  ]The match cut[18] spanning four million yearsThe match cut[18] spanning four million yearsThe match cut[18] spanning four million yearsThe   match cut  match cut  [18]  [18]  [  [  18  ]  ]   spanning four million years  A tribe of herbivorous early hominids is foraging for food in the African desert with some tapirs alongside it. A leopard kills one member, and another tribe of man-apes drives them from their water hole. Defeated, they sleep overnight in a small exposed rock crater, and awake to find a black monolith has appeared in front of them. They approach it shrieking and jumping, and eventually touch it cautiously. Soon after, one of the man-apes, "Moonwatcher"[note 1] (played by Daniel Richter), realizes how to use a bone as both a tool and a weapon, which they start using to kill prey for their food. Growing increasingly capable and assertive, they reclaim control of the water hole from the other tribe by killing its leader. Triumphant, the tribe's leader throws his weapon-tool into the air as the scene shifts via match cut.[20][21]  A tribe of   herbivorous  herbivorous     early hominids  early hominids   is foraging for food in the African desert with some   tapirs  tapirs   alongside it. A   leopard  leopard   kills one member, and another tribe of man-apes drives them from their water hole. Defeated, they sleep overnight in a small exposed rock crater, and awake to find a black   monolith  monolith   has appeared in front of them. They approach it shrieking and jumping, and eventually touch it cautiously. Soon after, one of the man-apes, "Moonwatcher"  [note 1]  [note 1]  [  [  note 1  ]  ]   (played by   Daniel Richter  Daniel Richter  ), realizes how to use a   bone  bone   as both a tool and a   weapon  weapon  , which they start using to kill prey for their food. Growing increasingly capable and assertive, they reclaim control of the water hole from the other tribe by killing its leader. Triumphant, the tribe's leader throws his weapon-tool into the air as the scene shifts via   match cut  match cut  .  [20]  [20]  [  [  20  ]  ]  [21]  [21]  [  [  21  ]  ]  TMA-1[edit]  TMA-1  TMA-1  [edit]  [  [  edit  edit  ]  ]  A Pan Am space plane carries Dr. Heywood R. Floyd (William Sylvester) to a space station orbiting Earth for a layover on his trip to Clavius Base, a Lunar US outpost. After making a videophone call from the station to his daughter (Vivian Kubrick), he encounters his friend Elena (Margaret Tyzack), a Soviet scientist, and her colleague Dr. Smyslov (Leonard Rossiter), who ask Floyd about "odd things" occurring at Clavius, and the rumor of a mysterious epidemic at the base. Floyd politely but firmly declines to answer questions about the epidemic, claiming he is "not at liberty to discuss this".  A   Pan Am  Pan Am     space plane  space plane   carries Dr.   Heywood R. Floyd  Heywood R. Floyd   (  William Sylvester  William Sylvester  ) to a space station orbiting Earth for a   layover  layover   on his trip to   Clavius Base  Clavius Base  , a Lunar US outpost. After making a   videophone  videophone   call from the station to his daughter (  Vivian Kubrick  Vivian Kubrick  ), he encounters his friend Elena (  Margaret Tyzack  Margaret Tyzack  ), a Soviet scientist, and her colleague Dr. Smyslov (  Leonard Rossiter  Leonard Rossiter  ), who ask Floyd about "odd things" occurring at Clavius, and the rumor of a mysterious epidemic at the base. Floyd politely but firmly declines to answer questions about the epidemic, claiming he is "not at liberty to discuss this".  At Clavius, Floyd heads a meeting of base personnel, apologizing for the epidemic cover story but stressing secrecy. His mission is to investigate a recently found artifact—"Tycho Magnetic Anomaly One" (TMA-1)—"deliberately buried" four million years ago. Floyd and others ride in a Moonbus to the artifact, a black monolith identical to the one encountered by the apes. The visitors examine the monolith, and pose for a photo in front of it. While doing so, they hear a very loud high-pitched radio signal emanating from within the monolith.  At Clavius, Floyd heads a meeting of base personnel, apologizing for the epidemic   cover story  cover story   but stressing secrecy. His mission is to investigate a recently found artifact—"  Tycho  Tycho   Magnetic Anomaly One" (TMA-1)—"deliberately buried" four million years ago. Floyd and others ride in a   Moonbus  Moonbus   to the artifact, a black monolith identical to the one encountered by the apes. The visitors examine the monolith, and pose for a photo in front of it. While doing so, they hear a very loud high-pitched radio signal emanating from within the monolith.  Jupiter Mission[edit]  Jupiter Mission  Jupiter Mission  [edit]  [  [  edit  edit  ]  ]  Eighteen months later, the U.S. spacecraft Discovery One is bound for Jupiter. On board are mission pilots and scientists Dr. David Bowman (Keir Dullea) and Dr. Frank Poole (Gary Lockwood), and three other scientists who are in cryogenic hibernation. Most of Discovery's operations are controlled by the ship's computer, HAL 9000 (voiced by Douglas Rain), referred to by the crew as "Hal". Bowman and Poole watch Hal and themselves being interviewed in a BBC show about the mission, in which the computer states that he is "foolproof and incapable of error." Hal also speaks of his enthusiasm for the mission, and how he enjoys working with humans. When asked by the host if Hal has genuine emotions, Bowman replies that he appears to, but that the truth is unknown.  Eighteen months later, the U.S. spacecraft   Discovery One  Discovery One  Discovery One   is bound for   Jupiter  Jupiter  . On board are mission pilots and scientists Dr. David Bowman (  Keir Dullea  Keir Dullea  ) and Dr. Frank Poole (  Gary Lockwood  Gary Lockwood  ), and three other scientists who are in   cryogenic hibernation  cryogenic hibernation  . Most of   Discovery's  Discovery's   operations are controlled by the ship's computer,   HAL 9000  HAL 9000   (voiced by   Douglas Rain  Douglas Rain  ), referred to by the crew as "Hal". Bowman and Poole watch Hal and themselves being interviewed in a   BBC  BBC   show about the mission, in which the computer states that he is "foolproof and incapable of error." Hal also speaks of his enthusiasm for the mission, and how he enjoys working with humans. When asked by the host if Hal has genuine emotions, Bowman replies that he appears to, but that the truth is unknown.  Hal asks Bowman about the unusual mystery and secrecy surrounding the mission, but then interrupts himself to report the imminent failure of a device which controls the ship's main antenna. After retrieving the component with an EVA pod, the astronauts cannot find anything wrong with it. Hal suggests reinstalling the part and letting it fail so the problem can be found. Mission control concurs, but advises the astronauts that results from their twin HAL 9000 indicate the ship's Hal is in error predicting the fault. When queried, Hal insists that the problem, like all previous issues with the HAL series, is due to "human error". Concerned about Hal's behavior, Bowman and Poole enter one of the EVA pods to talk without the computer overhearing them. They both have suspicions about Hal, despite the perfect reliability of the HAL series, but they decide to follow his suggestion to replace the unit. The astronauts agree to disconnect Hal if he is proven to be wrong. During the conversation between Bowman and Poole, HAL is able to view the astronauts through the portal of the EVA pod and read their lips as they discuss their plan.  Hal asks Bowman about the unusual mystery and secrecy surrounding the mission, but then interrupts himself to report the imminent failure of a device which controls the ship's main antenna. After retrieving the component with an   EVA pod  EVA pod  , the astronauts cannot find anything wrong with it. Hal suggests reinstalling the part and letting it fail so the problem can be found. Mission control concurs, but advises the astronauts that results from their twin HAL 9000 indicate the ship's Hal is in error predicting the fault. When queried, Hal insists that the problem, like all previous issues with the HAL series, is due to "human error". Concerned about Hal's behavior, Bowman and Poole enter one of the   EVA  EVA   pods to talk without the computer overhearing them. They both have suspicions about Hal, despite the perfect reliability of the HAL series, but they decide to follow his suggestion to replace the unit. The astronauts agree to disconnect Hal if he is proven to be wrong. During the conversation between Bowman and Poole, HAL is able to view the astronauts through the portal of the EVA pod and read their lips as they discuss their plan.  While Poole is attempting to replace the unit during a space-walk, his EVA pod, controlled by Hal, severs his oxygen hose and sets him adrift. Bowman, not realizing the computer is responsible for this, takes another pod to attempt a rescue, leaving his helmet behind. While he is gone, Hal turns off the life-support functions of the crewmen in suspended animation. When Bowman returns to the ship with Poole's body, Hal refuses to let him in, revealing that he had monitored their lip movements during their conversation about disconnecting him. He states that the astronaut's plan to deactivate him jeopardizes the mission. Having to let go of Poole, Bowman manually opens the ship's emergency airlock and enters the ship risking death from exposure to vacuum but survives. After donning a helmet, Bowman proceeds to Hal's processor core intent on disconnecting most of the functions of the computer. Hal first tries to reassure Dave, then pleads with him to stop, and finally begins to express fear—all in a steady monotone voice. Dave ignores him and disconnects most of the computer's memory and processor modules. Hal eventually regresses to his earliest programmed memory, the song "Daisy Bell", which he sings for Bowman.  While Poole is attempting to replace the unit during a   space-walk  space-walk  , his EVA pod, controlled by Hal, severs his oxygen hose and sets him adrift. Bowman, not realizing the computer is responsible for this, takes another pod to attempt a rescue, leaving his helmet behind. While he is gone, Hal turns off the life-support functions of the crewmen in suspended animation. When Bowman returns to the ship with Poole's body, Hal refuses to let him in, revealing that he had monitored their lip movements during their conversation about disconnecting him. He states that the astronaut's plan to deactivate him jeopardizes the mission. Having to let go of Poole, Bowman manually opens the ship's emergency airlock and enters the ship risking death from   exposure to vacuum  exposure to vacuum   but survives. After donning a helmet, Bowman proceeds to Hal's processor core intent on disconnecting most of the functions of the computer. Hal first tries to reassure Dave, then pleads with him to stop, and finally begins to express fear—all in a steady monotone voice. Dave ignores him and disconnects most of the computer's memory and processor modules. Hal eventually regresses to his earliest programmed memory, the song "  Daisy Bell  Daisy Bell  ", which he sings for Bowman.  When the computer is finally disconnected, a prerecorded video message from Floyd plays. In it, he reveals the existence of the four million-year-old black monolith on the Moon, "its origin and purpose still a total mystery". Floyd adds that it has remained completely inert, except for a single, very powerful radio emission aimed at Jupiter.  When the computer is finally disconnected, a prerecorded video message from Floyd plays. In it, he reveals the existence of the four million-year-old black monolith on the Moon, "its origin and purpose still a total mystery". Floyd adds that it has remained completely inert, except for a single, very powerful radio emission aimed at Jupiter.  Jupiter and Beyond the Infinite[edit]  Jupiter and Beyond the Infinite  Jupiter and Beyond the Infinite  [edit]  [  [  edit  edit  ]  ]  At Jupiter, Bowman leaves Discovery One in an EVA pod to investigate another monolith discovered in orbit around the planet. Approaching it, the pod is suddenly pulled into a vortex of colored light,[22] and a disoriented and terrified Bowman finds himself racing at great speed across vast distances of space, viewing bizarre cosmological phenomena and strange landscapes of unusual colors. He finds himself, middle-aged and still in his spacesuit, standing in a bedroom appointed in the Louis XVI-style. Bowman sees progressively older versions of himself, his point of view switching each time, alternately appearing formally dressed and eating dinner, and finally as a very elderly man lying in a bed. A black monolith appears at the foot of the bed, and as Bowman reaches for it, he is transformed into a fetal being enclosed in a transparent orb of light.[23] The new being floats in space beside the Earth, gazing at it.  At Jupiter, Bowman leaves   Discovery One  Discovery One   in an EVA pod to investigate another monolith discovered in orbit around the planet. Approaching it, the pod is suddenly pulled into a vortex of colored light,  [22]  [22]  [  [  22  ]  ]   and a disoriented and terrified Bowman finds himself racing at great speed across vast distances of space, viewing bizarre cosmological phenomena and strange landscapes of unusual colors. He finds himself, middle-aged and still in his spacesuit, standing in a bedroom appointed in the   Louis XVI-style  Louis XVI-style  . Bowman sees progressively older versions of himself, his point of view switching each time, alternately appearing formally dressed and eating dinner, and finally as a very elderly man lying in a bed. A black monolith appears at the foot of the bed, and as Bowman reaches for it, he is transformed into a   fetal  fetal   being enclosed in a transparent   orb  orb   of light.  [23]  [23]  [  [  23  ]  ]   The new being floats in space beside the Earth, gazing at it. 