  In 1280, King Edward "Longshanks" (Patrick Mcgoohan) invades and conquers Scotland following the death of Alexander III of Scotland who left no heir to the throne. Young William Wallace witnesses the treachery of Longshanks, survives the death of his father and brother, and is taken abroad to Rome by his Uncle Argyle (Brian Cox) where he is educated. Years later, Longshanks grants his noblemen land and privileges in Scotland, including "Prima Nocte", or the right of the lord to have sex with female subjects on their wedding nights. When he returns home, (his Uncle Argyle is presumably deceased by this point) Wallace (Mel Gibson) falls in love with his childhood friend, Murron MacClannough (Catherine McCormack), and they marry in secret so she does not have to spend a night in the bed with the English lord. Wallace rescues Murron from being raped by English soldiers; as a consequence, Murron is captured and publicly executed. In retribution, Wallace slaughters the English garrison and sends the occupying garrison at Lanark back to England.  In 1280,   King Edward "Longshanks"  King Edward "Longshanks"   (  Patrick Mcgoohan  Patrick Mcgoohan  ) invades and conquers   Scotland  Scotland   following the death of   Alexander III of Scotland  Alexander III of Scotland   who left no heir to the throne. Young William Wallace witnesses the treachery of Longshanks, survives the death of his father and brother, and is taken abroad to   Rome  Rome   by his Uncle Argyle (  Brian Cox  Brian Cox  ) where he is educated. Years later, Longshanks grants his noblemen land and privileges in Scotland, including "Prima Nocte", or   the right of the lord to have sex with female subjects on their wedding nights  the right of the lord to have sex with female subjects on their wedding nights  . When he returns home, (his Uncle Argyle is presumably deceased by this point) Wallace (  Mel Gibson  Mel Gibson  ) falls in love with his childhood friend, Murron MacClannough (  Catherine McCormack  Catherine McCormack  ), and they marry in secret so she does not have to spend a night in the bed with the English lord. Wallace rescues Murron from being raped by English soldiers; as a consequence, Murron is captured and publicly executed. In retribution, Wallace   slaughters the English garrison  slaughters the English garrison   and sends the occupying garrison at   Lanark  Lanark   back to England.  This enrages Longshanks, who orders his son, Prince Edward, to stop Wallace by any means necessary. Wallace rebels against the English, and as his legend spreads, hundreds of Scots from the surrounding clans join him. On September 11, 1297, Wallace leads his army to victory at Stirling and then sacked the city of York, killing Longshanks' nephew and sending his head back. Wallace seeks the assistance of Robert the Bruce (Angus Macfadyen), the son of nobleman Robert the Elder (Ian Bannen) and a contender for the Scottish crown. Robert is dominated by his father, who wishes to secure the throne for his son by submitting to the English. Worried by the threat of the rebellion, Longshanks sends his son's wife, Isabella of France (Sophie Marceau) to try to negotiate with Wallace, hoping that Wallace will kill her in order to draw the French king to declare war. Wallace refuses the bribe sent with Isabella by Longshanks, but after meeting him in person, Isabella becomes enamored with him. Meanwhile, Longshanks prepares an army to invade Scotland.  This enrages Longshanks, who orders his son,   Prince Edward  Prince Edward  , to stop Wallace by any means necessary. Wallace rebels against the English, and as his legend spreads, hundreds of Scots from the surrounding clans join him. On September 11, 1297, Wallace leads his army to victory at   Stirling  Stirling   and then sacked the city of   York  York  , killing Longshanks' nephew and sending his head back. Wallace seeks the assistance of   Robert the Bruce  Robert the Bruce   (  Angus Macfadyen  Angus Macfadyen  ), the son of nobleman   Robert the Elder  Robert the Elder   (  Ian Bannen  Ian Bannen  ) and a contender for the Scottish crown. Robert is dominated by his father, who wishes to secure the throne for his son by submitting to the English. Worried by the threat of the rebellion, Longshanks sends his son's wife,   Isabella of France  Isabella of France   (  Sophie Marceau  Sophie Marceau  ) to try to negotiate with Wallace, hoping that Wallace will kill her in order to draw the French king to declare war. Wallace refuses the bribe sent with Isabella by Longshanks, but after meeting him in person, Isabella becomes enamored with him. Meanwhile, Longshanks prepares an army to invade Scotland.  Warned of the coming invasion by Isabella, Wallace implores the Scottish nobility that immediate action is needed to counter the threat and to take back the country. Leading the English army himself, Longshanks confronts the Scots at Falkirk on July 22, 1298 where noblemen Lochlan and Mornay betray Wallace. The Scots lose the battle, Morrison and Hamish's father die at the battle. As he charges toward the departing Longshanks on horseback, Wallace is intercepted by one of the king's lancers, who turns out to be Robert. Remorseful, he gets Wallace to safety before the English can capture him. Wallace kills Mornay and Lochlan for their betrayal, and wages a guerrilla war against the English for the next seven years, assisted by Isabella, with whom he eventually has an affair. Robert, intending to join Wallace and commit troops to the war, sets up a meeting with him in Edinburgh. However, Robert's father has conspired with other nobles to capture and hand over Wallace to the English. Learning of his treachery, Robert disowns his father. Isabella exacts revenge on the now terminally ill Longshanks by telling him she is pregnant with Wallace's child, intent on ending Longshanks' line and ruling in his son's place.  Warned of the coming invasion by Isabella, Wallace implores the Scottish nobility that immediate action is needed to counter the threat and to take back the country. Leading the English army himself, Longshanks confronts the Scots at   Falkirk  Falkirk   on July 22, 1298 where noblemen Lochlan and Mornay betray Wallace. The Scots lose the   battle  battle  , Morrison and Hamish's father die at the battle. As he charges toward the departing Longshanks on horseback, Wallace is intercepted by one of the king's lancers, who turns out to be Robert. Remorseful, he gets Wallace to safety before the English can capture him. Wallace kills Mornay and Lochlan for their betrayal, and wages a guerrilla war against the English for the next seven years, assisted by Isabella, with whom he eventually has an affair. Robert, intending to join Wallace and commit troops to the war, sets up a meeting with him in   Edinburgh  Edinburgh  . However, Robert's father has conspired with other nobles to capture and hand over Wallace to the English. Learning of his treachery, Robert disowns his father. Isabella exacts revenge on the now terminally ill Longshanks by telling him she is pregnant with Wallace's child, intent on ending Longshanks' line and ruling in his son's place.  In London, Wallace is brought before an English magistrate, tried for high treason, and condemned to public torture and beheading. Even whilst being hanged, drawn and quartered, Wallace refuses to beg for mercy and submit to the king. As cries for mercy come from the watching crowd deeply moved by the Scotsman's valor, the magistrate offers him one final chance, asking him only to utter the word "Mercy" and be granted a quick death. Wallace instead shouts the word "Freedom!" and the judge orders his death. Moments before being decapitated, Wallace sees a vision of Murron in the crowd, smiling at him.  In   London  London  , Wallace is brought before an English magistrate, tried for high treason, and condemned to public torture and beheading. Even whilst being   hanged, drawn and quartered  hanged, drawn and quartered  , Wallace refuses to beg for mercy and submit to the king. As cries for mercy come from the watching crowd deeply moved by the Scotsman's valor, the magistrate offers him one final chance, asking him only to utter the word "Mercy" and be granted a quick death. Wallace instead shouts the word "Freedom!" and the judge orders his death. Moments before being   decapitated  decapitated  , Wallace sees a vision of Murron in the crowd, smiling at him.  In 1314, Robert, now Scotland's king, leads a Scottish army before a ceremonial line of English troops on the fields of Bannockburn where he is to formally accept English rule. As he begins to ride toward the English, he stops and invokes Wallace's memory, imploring his men to fight with him as they did with Wallace. Robert then leads his army into battle against the stunned English, winning the Scots their freedom.  In 1314, Robert, now Scotland's king, leads a Scottish army before a ceremonial line of English troops on the fields of   Bannockburn  Bannockburn   where he is to formally accept English rule. As he begins to ride toward the English, he stops and invokes Wallace's memory, imploring his men to fight with him as they did with Wallace. Robert then leads his army into battle against the stunned English, winning the Scots their freedom. 