Orson Welles as Charles Foster KaneOrson Welles as Charles Foster KaneOrson Welles as Charles Foster KaneOrson Welles as Charles Foster Kane  The film opens with shots of Xanadu, a vast palatial estate in Florida with a "No Trespassing" sign on the gate. Inside the estate's mansion an elderly man on his deathbed holds a snow globe and utters the single word, "Rosebud", before dying; the globe slips from his hand and smashes on the floor.  The film opens with shots of   Xanadu  Xanadu  , a vast palatial estate in Florida with a "No Trespassing" sign on the gate. Inside the estate's mansion an elderly man on his deathbed holds a   snow globe  snow globe   and utters the single word, "Rosebud", before dying; the globe slips from his hand and smashes on the floor.  A newsreel obituary tells the life story of Charles Foster Kane, an enormously wealthy newspaper publisher. The newsreel recounts Kane's entire life, including his mysterious last words. Kane's death becomes sensational news around the world. The newsreel's producer tasks reporter Jerry Thompson with discovering the meaning of "Rosebud".  A   newsreel obituary  newsreel obituary   tells the life story of   Charles Foster Kane  Charles Foster Kane  , an enormously wealthy newspaper publisher. The newsreel recounts Kane's entire life, including his mysterious last words. Kane's death becomes sensational news around the world. The newsreel's producer tasks reporter Jerry Thompson with discovering the meaning of "Rosebud".  Thompson sets out to interviews Kane's friends and associates. Thompson approaches Kane's second wife, Susan Alexander Kane, now an alcoholic who runs her own nightclub, but she refuses to tell him anything and demands that he leave.  Thompson sets out to interviews Kane's friends and associates. Thompson approaches Kane's second wife, Susan Alexander Kane, now an   alcoholic  alcoholic   who runs her own nightclub, but she refuses to tell him anything and demands that he leave.  Thompson then goes to the private archive of the late Walter Parks Thatcher, a banker who served as Kane's guardian during his childhood and adolescence. Through Thatcher's written memoirs, Thompson learns about Kane's childhood, which began in poverty in Colorado (his parents ran a boarding house), until "the world's third largest gold mine" was discovered on the seemingly worthless property his mother had acquired. His mother, Mary, sends him away to the East to live with Thatcher, so that he may be properly educated. After gaining full control over his trust fund at the age of 25, Kane enters the newspaper business and embarks on a career of yellow journalism. He takes control of the newspaper, the New York Inquirer and begins publishing scandalous articles that attack Thatcher's business interests.  Thompson then goes to the private archive of the late Walter Parks Thatcher, a banker who served as Kane's guardian during his childhood and adolescence. Through Thatcher's written memoirs, Thompson learns about Kane's childhood, which began in poverty in Colorado (his parents ran a boarding house), until "the world's third largest gold mine" was discovered on the seemingly worthless property his mother had acquired. His mother, Mary, sends him away to the   East  East   to live with Thatcher, so that he may be properly educated. After gaining full control over his trust fund at the age of 25, Kane enters the newspaper business and embarks on a career of   yellow journalism  yellow journalism  . He takes control of the newspaper, the   New York Inquirer  New York Inquirer   and begins publishing scandalous articles that attack Thatcher's business interests.  Thompson then interviews Kane's personal business manager, Mr. Bernstein. Berstein recalls how Kane hired the best journalists available to build The Inquirer's circulation. Kane then rises to power by successfully manipulating public opinion regarding the Spanish American War and marrying Emily Norton, the niece of a President of the United States.  Thompson then interviews Kane's personal business manager, Mr. Bernstein. Berstein recalls how Kane hired the best journalists available to build   The Inquirer'  The Inquirer'  s circulation. Kane then rises to power by successfully manipulating public opinion regarding the   Spanish American War  Spanish American War   and marrying Emily Norton, the niece of a   President of the United States  President of the United States  .  Thompson then interviews Kane's estranged best friend, Jedediah Leland. Leland recalls Kane campaigning for the office of Governor of New York. Kane's marriage disintegrates over the years, and he begins an affair with Susan Alexander, a singer. Both his wife and his political opponent discover the affair and this brings an abrupt end to both his marriage and his political aspirations. Kane marries Susan, and forces her into a humiliating operatic career for which she has neither the talent nor the ambition.  Thompson then interviews Kane's estranged best friend, Jedediah Leland. Leland recalls Kane campaigning for the office of Governor of   New York  New York  . Kane's marriage disintegrates over the years, and he begins an affair with Susan Alexander, a singer. Both his wife and his political opponent discover the affair and this brings an abrupt end to both his marriage and his political aspirations. Kane marries Susan, and forces her into a humiliating operatic career for which she has neither the talent nor the ambition.  Thompson then returns to interview Susan, successfully this time. Susan recalls her failed opera career. Kane finally allows her to abandon her singing career after she attempts suicide. After years spent in boredom and isolation on the Xanadu estate, constantly under his dominance, Susan ultimately leaves Kane. Kane spends his last years building his vast estate and lives alone, interacting only with his staff.  Thompson then returns to interview Susan, successfully this time. Susan recalls her failed opera career. Kane finally allows her to abandon her singing career after she attempts suicide. After years spent in boredom and isolation on the Xanadu estate, constantly under his dominance, Susan ultimately leaves Kane. Kane spends his last years building his vast estate and lives alone, interacting only with his staff.  Finally Thompson interviews Kane's butler Raymond at the Xanadu estate. Raymond recounts that Kane had said "Rosebud" after Susan left him, right after seeing and pocketing a snow globe.  Finally Thompson interviews Kane's butler Raymond at the Xanadu estate. Raymond recounts that Kane had said "Rosebud" after Susan left him, right after seeing and pocketing a snow globe.  Back at Xanadu, Kane's vast number of belongings are catalogued: priceless works of art are intermingled with worthless pieces of modern furniture. Thompson finds that he is unable to solve the mystery and concludes that the meaning of "Rosebud" will forever remain an enigma. He theorizes that "Mr. Kane was a man who got everything he wanted, and then lost it. Maybe Rosebud was something he couldn't get, or something he lost." As the film ends, the camera reveals that Rosebud was the name of a sled from Kane's childhood–an allusion to the only time in his life that he was truly happy. The sled, thought to be junk, is burned in a basement furnace by Xanadu's departing staff.  Back at Xanadu, Kane's vast number of belongings are catalogued: priceless works of art are intermingled with worthless pieces of modern furniture. Thompson finds that he is unable to solve the mystery and concludes that the meaning of "Rosebud" will forever remain an enigma. He theorizes that "Mr. Kane was a man who got everything he wanted, and then lost it. Maybe Rosebud was something he couldn't get, or something he lost." As the film ends, the camera reveals that Rosebud was the name of a   sled  sled   from Kane's childhood–an allusion to the only time in his life that he was truly happy. The sled, thought to be junk, is burned in a basement furnace by Xanadu's departing staff. 