  In the winter of 1987, Minneapolis car salesman Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) is desperate for money. With help from Shep Proudfoot (Steve Reevis), an ex-convict and mechanic co-worker, Jerry is introduced to criminals Carl Showalter (Steve Buscemi) and Gaear Grimsrud (Peter Stormare). Jerry travels to Fargo, North Dakota to meet and hire the two men to kidnap his wife, Jean (Kristin Rudrüd), and ransom her for $80,000 to his wealthy father-in-law and boss, Wade Gustafson (Harve Presnell). In exchange, Jerry will provide Carl and Gaear with a new 1987 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera and half of the ransom money. However, Jerry secretly intends to tell Wade that the ransom demand is for $1,000,000 and keep most of the money for himself.  In the winter of 1987,   Minneapolis  Minneapolis   car salesman Jerry Lundegaard (  William H. Macy  William H. Macy  ) is desperate for money. With help from Shep Proudfoot (  Steve Reevis  Steve Reevis  ), an ex-convict and mechanic co-worker, Jerry is introduced to criminals Carl Showalter (  Steve Buscemi  Steve Buscemi  ) and Gaear Grimsrud (  Peter Stormare  Peter Stormare  ). Jerry travels to   Fargo, North Dakota  Fargo, North Dakota   to meet and hire the two men to kidnap his wife, Jean (Kristin Rudrüd), and ransom her for $80,000 to his wealthy father-in-law and boss, Wade Gustafson (  Harve Presnell  Harve Presnell  ). In exchange, Jerry will provide Carl and Gaear with a new 1987   Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera  Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera   and half of the ransom money. However, Jerry secretly intends to tell Wade that the ransom demand is for $1,000,000 and keep most of the money for himself.  Meanwhile, Jerry has been trying to convince Wade to lend him money for a real estate deal. As Wade becomes interested in the investment, Jerry tries to call off the kidnapping, but he is too late as Carl and Gaear are already en route to Minneapolis and cannot be reached. As it turns out, Wade intends to buy the property himself anyway and give Jerry only a finder's fee. Meanwhile, Carl and Gaear arrive in Minneapolis and kidnap Jean, but on the way back to their cabin hideout, they are stopped by a state trooper outside Brainerd, Minnesota . When Carl's attempt to bribe the trooper fails and arouses suspicion, Gaear quickly kills the trooper. Moments later, a couple in a passing car witnesses Carl moving the trooper's body off the road and they drive away. Gaear chases after them until they swerve off the road and flip over, enabling Gaear to kill them.  Meanwhile, Jerry has been trying to convince Wade to lend him money for a real estate deal. As Wade becomes interested in the investment, Jerry tries to call off the kidnapping, but he is too late as Carl and Gaear are already en route to Minneapolis and cannot be reached. As it turns out, Wade intends to buy the property himself anyway and give Jerry only a   finder's fee  finder's fee  . Meanwhile, Carl and Gaear arrive in Minneapolis and kidnap Jean, but on the way back to their cabin hideout, they are stopped by a   state trooper  state trooper   outside   Brainerd, Minnesota  Brainerd, Minnesota   . When Carl's attempt to bribe the trooper fails and arouses suspicion, Gaear quickly kills the trooper. Moments later, a couple in a passing car witnesses Carl moving the trooper's body off the road and they drive away. Gaear chases after them until they swerve off the road and flip over, enabling Gaear to kill them.  The following morning, Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand), a local police chief who is seven months pregnant, investigates the homicides. She deduces the chain of events and follows the leads that arise, including interviewing two prostitutes who had serviced the criminals at a truck stop two nights before. After being informed that the criminals telephoned Shep from the truck stop, she drives to Minneapolis, but acquires no information in interviews with both Shep and Jerry. While visiting Minneapolis, Marge reconnects with an old classmate, Mike Yanagita (Steve Park), who unsuccessfully tries to seduce her during dinner and then tells her that he has been lonely ever since his wife, Linda Cooksey, also from their high school, died from leukemia.  The following morning, Marge Gunderson (  Frances McDormand  Frances McDormand  ), a local police chief who is seven months pregnant, investigates the homicides. She deduces the chain of events and follows the leads that arise, including interviewing two prostitutes who had serviced the criminals at a truck stop two nights before. After being informed that the criminals telephoned Shep from the truck stop, she drives to Minneapolis, but acquires no information in interviews with both Shep and Jerry. While visiting Minneapolis, Marge reconnects with an old classmate, Mike Yanagita (  Steve Park  Steve Park  ), who unsuccessfully tries to seduce her during dinner and then tells her that he has been lonely ever since his wife, Linda Cooksey, also from their high school, died from   leukemia  leukemia  .  Jerry contacts Wade and Stan Grossman (Larry Brandenburg), Wade's accountant, claiming that the kidnappers insist on dealing only with Jerry. Wade and Stan accept this arrangement at first, but Wade later changes his mind and decides to deal with the kidnappers himself. Also, Carl angrily demands that Jerry give him and Gaear the entire $80,000 ransom as extra payment for the murders. Later, Shep tracks down Carl and beats him for potentially getting him in trouble with Marge. Furiously, Carl phones Jerry and demands he make the drop off that night at a parking garage. However, Wade, who was eavesdropping on their conversation, storms out in Jerry's place with the ransom in his briefcase. When he arrives, Wade refuses to hand over the briefcase to Carl until Jean is returned. Angered by Wade's demands and unexpected appearance, Carl kills Wade, but not before Wade shoots Carl in the cheek. Jerry arrives at the scene's aftermath and puts Wade's body in his trunk. The next day, Carl discovers that the briefcase contains $1,000,000. He removes $80,000 to split with Gaear and buries the rest in the snow alongside the highway, marking the spot with an ice scraper. Carl then returns to the hideout and discovers that Gaear has killed Jean, claiming that she was too noisy. Following a dispute over the Ciera, Gaear murders Carl with an axe.  Jerry contacts Wade and Stan Grossman (  Larry Brandenburg  Larry Brandenburg  ), Wade's accountant, claiming that the kidnappers insist on dealing only with Jerry. Wade and Stan accept this arrangement at first, but Wade later changes his mind and decides to deal with the kidnappers himself. Also, Carl angrily demands that Jerry give him and Gaear the entire $80,000 ransom as extra payment for the murders. Later, Shep tracks down Carl and beats him for potentially getting him in trouble with Marge. Furiously, Carl phones Jerry and demands he make the drop off that night at a parking garage. However, Wade, who was eavesdropping on their conversation, storms out in Jerry's place with the ransom in his briefcase. When he arrives, Wade refuses to hand over the briefcase to Carl until Jean is returned. Angered by Wade's demands and unexpected appearance, Carl kills Wade, but not before Wade shoots Carl in the cheek. Jerry arrives at the scene's aftermath and puts Wade's body in his trunk. The next day, Carl discovers that the briefcase contains $1,000,000. He removes $80,000 to split with Gaear and buries the rest in the snow alongside the highway, marking the spot with an ice scraper. Carl then returns to the hideout and discovers that Gaear has killed Jean, claiming that she was too noisy. Following a dispute over the Ciera, Gaear murders Carl with an axe.  Before leaving Minneapolis, Marge learns from a friend that Mike had lied to her about his marriage and about Linda's death. She finds out that Mike has psychiatric problems and was actually stalking Linda. This revelation causes Marge to re-question Jerry, now believing that he too had lied to her about the missing car and its possible connection to the Brainerd homicides. Jerry becomes nervously uncooperative when Marge asks to speak with Wade and angrily storms out of his office, claiming to go check the lot for the missing car. Instead, he flees the dealership, which prompts Marge to contact the state police.  Before leaving Minneapolis, Marge learns from a friend that Mike had lied to her about his marriage and about Linda's death. She finds out that Mike has psychiatric problems and was actually stalking Linda. This revelation causes Marge to re-question Jerry, now believing that he too had lied to her about the missing car and its possible connection to the Brainerd homicides. Jerry becomes nervously uncooperative when Marge asks to speak with Wade and angrily storms out of his office, claiming to go check the lot for the missing car. Instead, he flees the dealership, which prompts Marge to contact the state police.  Later, after following up on a tip from a local bartender, who was suspicious over a drunken Carl's rantings a few days prior, Marge drives to Moose Lake and finds the stolen car. She catches Gaear feeding the last of Carl's body into a wood chipper. He attempts to run away across the frozen lake, but Marge shoots him in the leg and arrests him. Later, Jerry's location is traced to a motel outside Bismarck, North Dakota, where he is subdued and arrested while attempting to escape through a bathroom window.  Later, after following up on a tip from a local bartender, who was suspicious over a drunken Carl's rantings a few days prior, Marge drives to   Moose Lake  Moose Lake   and finds the stolen car. She catches Gaear feeding the last of Carl's body into a   wood chipper  wood chipper  . He attempts to run away across the frozen lake, but Marge shoots him in the leg and arrests him. Later, Jerry's location is traced to a motel outside   Bismarck, North Dakota  Bismarck, North Dakota  , where he is subdued and arrested while attempting to escape through a bathroom window.  That night, Marge and her husband, Norm (John Carroll Lynch), sit in bed together discussing Norm's mallard artwork, which has been selected as the design for a postage stamp. Norm is disappointed that it will appear on the 3¢ stamp instead of the more prestigious 29¢ stamp, but Marge is very proud of his achievement. The two hold each other close while expressing excitement for the birth of their child in two months.  That night, Marge and her husband, Norm (  John Carroll Lynch  John Carroll Lynch  ), sit in bed together discussing Norm's   mallard  mallard   artwork, which has been selected as the design for a postage stamp. Norm is disappointed that it will appear on the 3¢ stamp instead of the more prestigious 29¢ stamp, but Marge is very proud of his achievement. The two hold each other close while expressing excitement for the birth of their child in two months. 