  While waiting at a bus stop in 1981, Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) begins telling his life story to strangers who sit next to him on the bench. His story begins with his being named for a relative, Nathan Bedford Forrest, and proceeds to the leg braces he had to wear as a child in the 1950s, which resulted in other children bullying him. He lives with his mother (Sally Field), who tells him that "stupid is as stupid does." His mother runs a rooming house and Forrest teaches one of their guests, a young Elvis Presley (Peter Dobson), a hip-swinging dance. On a bus for his first day of school, Forrest meets Jenny, with whom he immediately falls in love, and they become best friends. One day, while fleeing from bullies, Forrest's leg braces break apart and he discovers that he can run very fast. Despite his below-average intelligence, his speed earns him an athletic scholarship to the University of Alabama. While in college, he witnesses George Wallace's Stand in the Schoolhouse Door, is named an All-American football player, and meets President John F. Kennedy.  While waiting at a bus stop in 1981,   Forrest Gump  Forrest Gump   (  Tom Hanks  Tom Hanks  ) begins telling his life story to strangers who sit next to him on the bench. His story begins with his being named for a relative,   Nathan Bedford Forrest  Nathan Bedford Forrest  , and proceeds to the leg braces he had to wear as a child in the 1950s, which resulted in other children bullying him. He lives with his mother (  Sally Field  Sally Field  ), who tells him that "stupid is as stupid does." His mother runs a rooming house and Forrest teaches one of their guests, a young   Elvis Presley  Elvis Presley   (  Peter Dobson  Peter Dobson  ), a hip-swinging dance. On a bus for his first day of school, Forrest meets Jenny, with whom he immediately falls in love, and they become best friends. One day, while fleeing from bullies, Forrest's leg braces break apart and he discovers that he can run very fast. Despite his below-average intelligence, his speed earns him an athletic scholarship to the   University of Alabama  University of Alabama  . While in college, he witnesses   George Wallace  George Wallace  's   Stand in the Schoolhouse Door  Stand in the Schoolhouse Door  , is named an   All-American  All-American   football player, and meets President   John F. Kennedy  John F. Kennedy  .  After graduating, Forrest enlists in the United States Army, where he befriends former shrimp fisherman Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue (Mykelti Williamson), and they agree to go into the shrimping business together once they end their service. They are sent to Vietnam, and while on patrol their platoon is ambushed. Forrest saves four of the men in his platoon, including platoon leader First Lieutenant Dan Taylor (Gary Sinise), but Bubba is killed. Forrest himself is wounded and receives the Medal of Honor from President Lyndon B. Johnson. While recovering from his injuries, Forrest meets Lieutenant Dan, who has had both of his legs amputated due to his injuries. He is furious at Forrest for leaving him a "cripple" and cheating him out of his destiny to die in battle.  After graduating, Forrest enlists in the   United States Army  United States Army  , where he befriends former shrimp fisherman Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue (  Mykelti Williamson  Mykelti Williamson  ), and they agree to go into the shrimping business together once they end their service. They are sent to   Vietnam  Vietnam  , and while on patrol their platoon is ambushed. Forrest saves four of the men in his platoon, including   platoon leader  platoon leader   First Lieutenant Dan Taylor (  Gary Sinise  Gary Sinise  ), but Bubba is killed. Forrest himself is wounded and receives the   Medal of Honor  Medal of Honor   from President   Lyndon B. Johnson  Lyndon B. Johnson  . While recovering from his injuries, Forrest meets Lieutenant Dan, who has had both of his legs amputated due to his injuries. He is furious at Forrest for leaving him a "cripple" and cheating him out of his destiny to die in battle.  Forrest discovers an aptitude for ping pong and begins playing for the U.S. Army team, eventually competing against Chinese teams on a goodwill tour. He visits the White House again and meets President Richard Nixon, who provides him a room at the Watergate hotel, where Forrest inadvertently helps expose the Watergate scandal. He again encounters Lieutenant Dan, now an embittered drunk living on welfare. Dan is scornful of Forrest's plans to enter the shrimping business and mockingly promises to be Forrest's first mate if he ever succeeds.  Forrest discovers an aptitude for   ping pong  ping pong   and begins playing for the U.S. Army team, eventually competing against Chinese teams on a   goodwill tour  goodwill tour  . He visits the White House again and meets President   Richard Nixon  Richard Nixon  , who provides him a room at the   Watergate hotel  Watergate hotel  , where Forrest inadvertently helps expose the   Watergate scandal  Watergate scandal  . He again encounters Lieutenant Dan, now an embittered drunk living on welfare. Dan is scornful of Forrest's plans to enter the shrimping business and mockingly promises to be Forrest's   first mate  first mate   if he ever succeeds.  Forrest is discharged from the military and uses money from a ping pong endorsement to buy a shrimping boat, fulfilling his wartime promise to Bubba. Lieutenant Dan keeps his own promise and joins Forrest as first mate. They initially have little luck, but after Hurricane Carmen wrecks every other shrimping boat in the region, the Bubba Gump Shrimp Company becomes a huge success. Forrest returns home to care for his ailing mother, who dies soon afterwards. He leaves the company in the hands of Dan, who invests the proceeds of the company in shares of Apple Computer, making them both wealthy.  Forrest is discharged from the military and uses money from a ping pong endorsement to buy a   shrimping  shrimping   boat, fulfilling his wartime promise to Bubba. Lieutenant Dan keeps his own promise and joins Forrest as first mate. They initially have little luck, but after   Hurricane Carmen  Hurricane Carmen   wrecks every other shrimping boat in the region, the Bubba Gump Shrimp Company becomes a huge success. Forrest returns home to care for his ailing mother, who dies soon afterwards. He leaves the company in the hands of Dan, who invests the proceeds of the company in shares of   Apple Computer  Apple Computer  , making them both wealthy.  Jenny returns to visit Forrest and stays with him. He proposes but she turns him down. They make love, but she quietly slips away the next morning. Distraught, Forrest decides to go for a run, which turns into a three-year coast-to-coast marathon. Forrest becomes a celebrity, attracting a band of followers. One day he stops his marathon suddenly and returns home, where he receives a letter from Jenny asking to meet.  Jenny returns to visit Forrest and stays with him. He proposes but she turns him down. They make love, but she quietly slips away the next morning. Distraught, Forrest decides to go for a run, which turns into a three-year coast-to-coast marathon. Forrest becomes a celebrity, attracting a band of followers. One day he stops his marathon suddenly and returns home, where he receives a letter from Jenny asking to meet.  This brings Forrest to the bus stop where he began telling his story at the start of the film. He tells the woman he is talking to at this point that he is trying to get to Henry Street. She tells him he does not need to take a bus because it is only 6 blocks away. Forrest gets up and leaves, and this ends the narration part of the film, as well as the comedy part. During his reunion with Jenny, Forrest discovers they have a young son, also named Forrest (Haley Joel Osment). Jenny reveals that she is suffering from an unspecified viral illness, presumably HIV/AIDS. She proposes and he accepts, and they return to Alabama with Forrest Jr. and marry. At his wedding, he meets Lieutenant Dan, who now has titanium alloy prosthetic legs and can walk (although he still has a cane at this point), as well as his fiancee.  This brings Forrest to the bus stop where he began telling his story at the start of the film. He tells the woman he is talking to at this point that he is trying to get to Henry Street. She tells him he does not need to take a bus because it is only 6 blocks away. Forrest gets up and leaves, and this ends the narration part of the film, as well as the comedy part. During his reunion with Jenny, Forrest discovers they have a young son, also named Forrest (  Haley Joel Osment  Haley Joel Osment  ). Jenny reveals that she is suffering from an unspecified viral illness, presumably   HIV/AIDS  HIV/AIDS  . She proposes and he accepts, and they return to Alabama with Forrest Jr. and marry. At his wedding, he meets Lieutenant Dan, who now has titanium alloy prosthetic legs and can walk (although he still has a cane at this point), as well as his fiancee.  Eventually, Jenny dies of her illness. Forrest waits with Forrest Jr. for the bus to pick him up for his first day of school, and watches his feather bookmark float off in the wind.  Eventually, Jenny dies of her illness. Forrest waits with Forrest Jr. for the bus to pick him up for his first day of school, and watches his feather bookmark float off in the wind. 