  In 1941, bugler and career soldier Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt (Montgomery Clift) transfers to a rifle company at Schofield Barracks on the island of Oahu. Captain Dana "Dynamite" Holmes (Philip Ober) has heard he is a talented middleweight boxer and wants him to join his regimental boxing team in order to secure a promotion. Prewitt refuses, having stopped fighting because he blinded his sparring partner and close friend over a year before. Holmes is adamant, but so is Prewitt.  In 1941, bugler and career soldier Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt (  Montgomery Clift  Montgomery Clift  ) transfers to a rifle company at   Schofield Barracks  Schofield Barracks   on the island of   Oahu  Oahu  . Captain Dana "Dynamite" Holmes (  Philip Ober  Philip Ober  ) has heard he is a talented middleweight boxer and wants him to join his regimental boxing team in order to secure a promotion. Prewitt refuses, having stopped fighting because he blinded his sparring partner and close friend over a year before. Holmes is adamant, but so is Prewitt.  Holmes makes life as miserable as possible for Prewitt, hoping he will give in. Holmes orders First Sergeant Milton Warden (Burt Lancaster) to prepare general court-martial papers after Sergeant Galovitch (John Dennis) first insults Prewitt, then gives an unreasonable order which Prewitt refuses to obey. Warden, however, suggests that he try to get Prewitt to change his mind by doubling up on company punishment. Warden's goal is not to punish Prewitt, but to prevent a court-martial for a career soldier. The other non-commissioned officers assist in the conspiracy. Prewitt is supported only by his friend, Private Angelo Maggio (Frank Sinatra).  Holmes makes life as miserable as possible for Prewitt, hoping he will give in. Holmes orders   First Sergeant  First Sergeant   Milton Warden (  Burt Lancaster  Burt Lancaster  ) to prepare general   court-martial  court-martial   papers after Sergeant Galovitch (John Dennis) first insults Prewitt, then gives an unreasonable order which Prewitt refuses to obey. Warden, however, suggests that he try to get Prewitt to change his mind by doubling up on company punishment. Warden's goal is not to punish Prewitt, but to prevent a court-martial for a career soldier. The other   non-commissioned officers  non-commissioned officers   assist in the conspiracy. Prewitt is supported only by his friend, Private Angelo Maggio (  Frank Sinatra  Frank Sinatra  ).Lancaster and Kerr in the beach scene at Halona Cove, Oahu, Hawaii.Lancaster and Kerr in the beach scene at Halona Cove, Oahu, Hawaii.Lancaster and Kerr in the beach scene at Halona Cove, Oahu, Hawaii.Lancaster and Kerr in the beach scene at Halona Cove, Oahu, Hawaii.  Meanwhile, Warden begins an affair with Holmes' neglected wife Karen (Deborah Kerr). Warden tells Karen the penalty for their affair is a twenty-year prison sentence. Sergeant Maylon Stark (George Reeves) has told Warden about Karen's many previous affairs at Fort Bliss, including with him. As their relationship develops, Warden asks Karen about her affairs to test her sincerity. Karen relates that Holmes has been unfaithful to her most of their marriage. She miscarried one night when Holmes returned home from seeing a hat-check girl, drunk and unable to call a doctor, resulting in her being unable to bear any more children. She then affirms her love for Warden.  Meanwhile, Warden begins an affair with Holmes' neglected wife Karen (  Deborah Kerr  Deborah Kerr  ). Warden tells Karen the penalty for their affair is a twenty-year prison sentence. Sergeant Maylon Stark (  George Reeves  George Reeves  ) has told Warden about Karen's many previous affairs at   Fort Bliss  Fort Bliss  , including with him. As their relationship develops, Warden asks Karen about her affairs to test her sincerity. Karen relates that Holmes has been unfaithful to her most of their marriage. She miscarried one night when Holmes returned home from seeing a hat-check girl, drunk and unable to call a doctor, resulting in her being unable to bear any more children. She then affirms her love for Warden.  Prewitt and Maggio spend their liberty at the New Congress Club, a gentlemen's club where Prewitt falls for Lorene (Donna Reed). She wants to marry a "proper" man with a "proper" job and live a "proper" life. Maggio and Staff Sergeant James R. Judson (Ernest Borgnine) nearly come to blows at the club over Judson's loud piano playing, which interferes with Maggio's dancing.  Prewitt and Maggio spend their liberty at the New Congress Club, a   gentlemen's club  gentlemen's club   where Prewitt falls for Lorene (  Donna Reed  Donna Reed  ). She wants to marry a "proper" man with a "proper" job and live a "proper" life. Maggio and Staff Sergeant James R. Judson (  Ernest Borgnine  Ernest Borgnine  ) nearly come to blows at the club over Judson's loud piano playing, which interferes with Maggio's dancing.  Later, Judson provokes Maggio by taking his photograph of his sister from him, kissing it, and whispering in Prewitt's ear. Maggio smashes a barstool over Judson's head. Judson pulls a switchblade, but Warden intervenes. When Judson advances on Warden, Warden breaks a beer bottle to make a makeshift weapon, causing Judson to back down. However, Judson warns Maggio that sooner or later he will end up in the stockade, where Judson is the Sergeant of the Guard.  Later, Judson provokes Maggio by taking his photograph of his sister from him, kissing it, and whispering in Prewitt's ear. Maggio smashes a barstool over Judson's head. Judson pulls a switchblade, but Warden intervenes. When Judson advances on Warden, Warden breaks a beer bottle to make a makeshift weapon, causing Judson to back down. However, Judson warns Maggio that sooner or later he will end up in the stockade, where Judson is the Sergeant of the Guard.  Karen tells Warden that if he became an officer, she could divorce Holmes and marry him. Warden reluctantly agrees to consider it. Warden gives Prewitt a weekend pass. He goes to see Lorene. Maggio then walks in drunk, having deserted his post. The military police arrest Maggio, and he is sentenced to six months in the stockade where Judson is waiting.  Karen tells Warden that if he became an officer, she could divorce Holmes and marry him. Warden reluctantly agrees to consider it. Warden gives Prewitt a weekend pass. He goes to see Lorene. Maggio then walks in drunk, having deserted his post. The military police arrest Maggio, and he is sentenced to six months in the stockade where Judson is waiting.  Then Sergeant Galovitch picks a fight with Prewitt. At first, Prewitt refuses to fight back, then resorts to only body blows. His fighting spirit re-emerges, and Prewitt comes close to knocking Galovitch out before Holmes finally stops the fight. Galovitch accuses Prewitt of starting the fight, but the man in charge of the detail says that it was Galovitch. Holmes lets him off the hook and disperses the crowd. The entire incident is witnessed by the base commander, who orders an investigation by the Inspector General. After Holmes' motives are revealed, the base commander orders a court-martial. When Holmes begs for an alternative, an aide suggests that Holmes resign his commission. Holmes' replacement, Captain Ross (John Bryant), reprimands the others involved and has the boxing team's framed photographs and trophies removed. He then demotes Galovitch to private and puts him in charge of the latrine.  Then Sergeant Galovitch picks a fight with Prewitt. At first, Prewitt refuses to fight back, then resorts to only body blows. His fighting spirit re-emerges, and Prewitt comes close to knocking Galovitch out before Holmes finally stops the fight. Galovitch accuses Prewitt of starting the fight, but the man in charge of the detail says that it was Galovitch. Holmes lets him off the hook and disperses the crowd. The entire incident is witnessed by the base commander, who orders an investigation by the   Inspector General  Inspector General  . After Holmes' motives are revealed, the base commander orders a court-martial. When Holmes begs for an alternative, an aide suggests that Holmes resign his commission. Holmes' replacement, Captain Ross (John Bryant), reprimands the others involved and has the boxing team's framed photographs and trophies removed. He then demotes Galovitch to private and puts him in charge of the   latrine  latrine  .  Maggio escapes the stockade and dies in Prewitt's arms after telling of the abuse he suffered at Judson's hands. Prewitt tracks Judson down and kills him with the same switchblade Judson pulled on Maggio earlier, but sustains a serious stomach wound. Prewitt goes into hiding at Lorene's house.  Maggio escapes the stockade and dies in Prewitt's arms after telling of the abuse he suffered at Judson's hands. Prewitt tracks Judson down and kills him with the same switchblade Judson pulled on Maggio earlier, but sustains a serious stomach wound. Prewitt goes into hiding at Lorene's house.  When the Japanese attack Pearl Harbor, Prewitt attempts to rejoin his company under cover of darkness, but is shot dead by a patrol. Warden notes the irony that the boxing tournament has been canceled because of the attack.  When the   Japanese  Japanese   attack   Pearl Harbor  Pearl Harbor  , Prewitt attempts to rejoin his company under cover of darkness, but is shot dead by a patrol. Warden notes the irony that the boxing tournament has been canceled because of the attack.  When Karen finds out that Warden did not apply for officer training, she realizes they have no future together. She returns to the mainland with her husband. Lorene and Karen meet on the ship. Lorene tells Karen that Lorene's fiancé was a bomber pilot who was heroically killed during the attack. Karen recognizes Prewitt's name, but says nothing.  When Karen finds out that Warden did not apply for officer training, she realizes they have no future together. She returns to the mainland with her husband. Lorene and Karen meet on the ship. Lorene tells Karen that Lorene's fiancé was a bomber pilot who was heroically killed during the attack. Karen recognizes Prewitt's name, but says nothing. 