  Henry Hill (Liotta) admits, "As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster," referring to his idolizing the Lucchese crime family gangsters in his blue-collar, predominantly Italian-American neighborhood in East New York, Brooklyn as a young man. Wanting to be part of something significant, Henry quits school and goes to work for them. He is able to make a living for himself, and learns the two most important lessons in life: "Never rat on your friends, and always keep your mouth shut," the advice given to him after being acquitted of criminal charges early in his career.  Henry Hill  Henry Hill   (Liotta) admits, "As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster," referring to his idolizing the   Lucchese crime family  Lucchese crime family   gangsters in his   blue-collar  blue-collar  , predominantly   Italian-American  Italian-American   neighborhood in   East New York, Brooklyn  East New York, Brooklyn   as a young man. Wanting to be part of something significant, Henry quits school and goes to work for them. He is able to make a living for himself, and learns the two most important lessons in life: "Never rat on your friends, and always keep your mouth shut," the advice given to him after being acquitted of criminal charges early in his career.  Henry is taken under the wing of the local mob capo, Paul "Paulie" Cicero (Sorvino) and his associates: James "Jimmy the Gent" Conway (De Niro), who loves hijacking trucks; and Tommy DeVito (Pesci), an aggressive armed robber with a temper. In late 1967, they commit the Air France Robbery. Enjoying the perks of their criminal life, they spend most of their nights at the Copacabana carousing with women. Henry meets and later marries Karen (Bracco), a Jewish woman from the Five Towns. Karen is initially troubled by Henry's criminal activities but is soon seduced by his glamorous lifestyle.  Henry is taken under the wing of the local mob   capo  capo  , Paul "Paulie" Cicero (Sorvino) and his associates:   James "Jimmy the Gent" Conway  James "Jimmy the Gent" Conway   (De Niro), who loves hijacking trucks; and Tommy DeVito (Pesci), an aggressive armed robber with a temper. In late 1967, they commit the   Air France Robbery  Air France Robbery  . Enjoying the perks of their criminal life, they spend most of their nights at the   Copacabana  Copacabana   carousing with women. Henry meets and later marries Karen (Bracco), a Jewish woman from the   Five Towns  Five Towns  . Karen is initially troubled by Henry's criminal activities but is soon seduced by his glamorous lifestyle.  On June 11, 1970, Tommy (with Jimmy's help) brutally beats to death Billy Batts (Vincent), a mobster with the Gambino crime family, for insulting him about being a shoeshine boy in his younger days. Realizing that their murder of a made man would mean retribution from the Gambino family, Jimmy, Henry, and Tommy cover up the murder. They transport the body in the trunk of Henry's car and bury it upstate. Six months later, Jimmy learns that the burial site will be developed, forcing them to exhume the decomposing corpse and move it.  On June 11, 1970, Tommy (with Jimmy's help) brutally beats to death Billy Batts (Vincent), a mobster with the   Gambino crime family  Gambino crime family  , for insulting him about being a shoeshine boy in his younger days. Realizing that their murder of a   made man  made man   would mean retribution from the Gambino family, Jimmy, Henry, and Tommy cover up the murder. They transport the body in the trunk of Henry's car and bury it upstate. Six months later, Jimmy learns that the burial site will be developed, forcing them to   exhume  exhume   the decomposing corpse and move it.  Henry sets his mistress, Janice Rossi (Mastrogiacomo), up in an apartment. When Karen finds out about their relationship, she tries to confront Janice at the apartment building and then threatens Henry at gunpoint at home. Henry goes to live in the apartment with Janice, but Paulie soon directs him to return to Karen after completing a job for him; Henry and Jimmy are sent to collect from an indebted gambler in Florida, which they succeed at after beating him. However, they are arrested after being turned in by the gambler's sister, a typist for the FBI. Jimmy and Henry receive ten-year prison sentences.  Henry sets his mistress, Janice Rossi (Mastrogiacomo), up in an apartment. When Karen finds out about their relationship, she tries to confront Janice at the apartment building and then threatens Henry at gunpoint at home. Henry goes to live in the apartment with Janice, but Paulie soon directs him to return to Karen after completing a job for him; Henry and Jimmy are sent to collect from an indebted   gambler  gambler   in Florida, which they succeed at after beating him. However, they are arrested after being turned in by the gambler's sister, a typist for the   FBI  FBI  . Jimmy and Henry receive ten-year prison sentences.  In prison, Henry sells drugs to support his family on the outside. After his early release in 1978, Henry further establishes himself in the drug trade, ignoring Paulie's warnings and convincing Tommy and Jimmy to join him. The crew commits the Lufthansa heist at John F. Kennedy International Airport, stealing $6 million. However, after many of the participants ignore Jimmy's command to not buy expensive luxuries with their share for fear of attracting police attention, he has them killed. Tommy is killed in retribution for Batts' murder, having been fooled into thinking that he would be made.  In prison, Henry   sells drugs  sells drugs   to support his family on the outside. After his early release in 1978, Henry further establishes himself in the drug trade, ignoring Paulie's warnings and convincing Tommy and Jimmy to join him. The crew commits the   Lufthansa heist  Lufthansa heist   at   John F. Kennedy International Airport  John F. Kennedy International Airport  , stealing $6 million. However, after many of the participants ignore Jimmy's command to not buy expensive luxuries with their share for fear of attracting police attention, he has them killed. Tommy is killed in retribution for Batts' murder, having been fooled into thinking that he would be made.  By May 11, 1980, Henry is a nervous wreck from cocaine use and insomnia, as he tries to organize a drug deal with his associates in Pittsburgh. However, he is arrested by narcotics agents and jailed. On his release, Karen tells him that she flushed $60,000 worth of cocaine down the toilet to prevent FBI agents from finding it during their raid, leaving the family virtually penniless. Feeling betrayed by Henry's dealing drugs, Paulie gives him $3,200 and ends his association with him. Facing federal charges, Henry decides to enroll in the Witness Protection Program after realizing that Jimmy intends to have him killed. Forced out of his gangster life, he now has to face living in the real world: "I'm an average nobody. I get to live the rest of my life like a schnook."  By May 11, 1980, Henry is a nervous wreck from   cocaine  cocaine   use and   insomnia  insomnia  , as he tries to organize a drug deal with his associates in   Pittsburgh  Pittsburgh  . However, he is arrested by narcotics agents and jailed. On his release, Karen tells him that she flushed $60,000 worth of cocaine down the toilet to prevent FBI agents from finding it during their raid, leaving the family virtually penniless. Feeling betrayed by Henry's dealing drugs, Paulie gives him $3,200 and ends his association with him. Facing federal charges, Henry decides to enroll in the   Witness Protection Program  Witness Protection Program   after realizing that Jimmy intends to have him killed. Forced out of his gangster life, he now has to face living in the real world: "I'm an average nobody. I get to live the rest of my life like a   schnook  schnook  ."  Titles explain that Henry was subsequently arrested on drug charges in Seattle, Washington, but has been clean since 1987. He and Karen separated in 1989 after 25 years of marriage. Paul Cicero died in Fort Worth Federal Prison of respiratory illness in 1988 at 73. Jimmy, in 1990, was serving a 20-year-to-life sentence in a New York State prison.  Titles explain that Henry was subsequently arrested on drug charges in   Seattle  Seattle  ,   Washington  Washington  , but has been clean since 1987. He and Karen separated in 1989 after 25 years of marriage. Paul Cicero died in   Fort Worth Federal Prison  Fort Worth Federal Prison   of respiratory illness in 1988 at 73. Jimmy, in 1990, was serving a 20-year-to-life sentence in a New York State prison. 