  Will Kane (Gary Cooper), the longtime marshal of Hadleyville, New Mexico Territory, has just married pacifist Quaker Amy Fowler (Grace Kelly) and turned in his badge. He intends to become a storekeeper elsewhere. Suddenly, the town learns that Frank Miller (Ian MacDonald), a criminal whom Kane brought to justice, is due to arrive on the noon train.  Will Kane  Will Kane   (  Gary Cooper  Gary Cooper  ), the longtime   marshal  marshal   of Hadleyville,   New Mexico Territory  New Mexico Territory  , has just married   pacifist  pacifist     Quaker  Quaker   Amy Fowler (  Grace Kelly  Grace Kelly  ) and turned in his badge. He intends to become a storekeeper elsewhere. Suddenly, the town learns that Frank Miller (  Ian MacDonald  Ian MacDonald  ), a criminal whom Kane brought to justice, is due to arrive on the noon train.  Miller had been sentenced to hang, but was pardoned on an unspecified legal technicality. In court, he had vowed to get revenge on Will and anyone else who got in the way. The members of Miller's gang are his younger brother Ben (Sheb Wooley), Jack Colby (Lee Van Cleef), and Jim Pierce (Robert J. Wilke), and they wait for him at the station.  Miller had been sentenced to hang, but was pardoned on an unspecified   legal technicality  legal technicality  . In court, he had vowed to get revenge on Will and anyone else who got in the way. The members of Miller's gang are his younger brother Ben (  Sheb Wooley  Sheb Wooley  ), Jack Colby (  Lee Van Cleef  Lee Van Cleef  ), and Jim Pierce (  Robert J. Wilke  Robert J. Wilke  ), and they wait for him at the station.  Will and Amy leave town, but fearing that the gang will both hunt him down and also be a danger to the town and its people, Will turns back. He reclaims his badge and scours the town for help, even interrupting Sunday church services, with little success. His deputy, Harvey Pell (Lloyd Bridges), resigns because Will did not recommend him as the new marshal. Harvey agrees to stay if Will will support him, but Will refuses to buy his assistance. Will goes to warn Helen Ramírez (Katy Jurado), first Miller’s lover, then Will's, and now Harvey's. Helen is already aware of what Miller will do to her if he finds her and has sold her business. She prepares to leave town to avoid Miller but also to avoid seeing Kane killed.  Will and Amy leave town, but fearing that the gang will both hunt him down and also be a danger to the town and its people, Will turns back. He reclaims his badge and scours the town for help, even interrupting Sunday church services, with little success. His deputy, Harvey Pell (  Lloyd Bridges  Lloyd Bridges  ), resigns because Will did not recommend him as the new marshal. Harvey agrees to stay if Will will support him, but Will refuses to buy his assistance. Will goes to warn Helen Ramírez (  Katy Jurado  Katy Jurado  ), first Miller’s lover, then Will's, and now Harvey's. Helen is already aware of what Miller will do to her if he finds her and has sold her business. She prepares to leave town to avoid Miller but also to avoid seeing Kane killed.  Amy gives Will an ultimatum: she is leaving on the noon train, with or without him.  Amy gives Will an ultimatum: she is leaving on the noon train, with or without him.  The judge who sentenced Miller is leaving and encourages Will to do the same. The marshal who preceded Will supports him, but is too old to help and tells Will to get out of town. Will tries eliciting help from the locals at a bar and then tries the church. Nobody at either place responds, and few support him. Some even desire to see Kane's probable demise. Many of the townspeople encourage Will to leave, hoping that would defuse the situation. Even Will's good friends the Fullers are at odds about how to deal with the situation. Mildred Fuller (Eve McVeagh) wants her husband, Sam (Harry Morgan), to speak with Will when he comes to their home, but he makes her claim he is not home while he hides in another room.  The judge who sentenced Miller is leaving and encourages Will to do the same. The marshal who preceded Will supports him, but is too old to help and tells Will to get out of town. Will tries eliciting help from the locals at a bar and then tries the church. Nobody at either place responds, and few support him. Some even desire to see Kane's probable demise. Many of the townspeople encourage Will to leave, hoping that would defuse the situation. Even Will's good friends the Fullers are at odds about how to deal with the situation. Mildred Fuller (  Eve McVeagh  Eve McVeagh  ) wants her husband, Sam (  Harry Morgan  Harry Morgan  ), to speak with Will when he comes to their home, but he makes her claim he is not home while he hides in another room.  In the end, Will faces Miller and his gang alone. Kane guns down Ben Miller and Colby, but is wounded in the process. Helen and Amy both board the train, but Amy gets off when she hears the sound of gunfire. Amy chooses her new husband's life over her religious beliefs, shooting Pierce from behind. Miller then takes her hostage to force Will into the open. However, Amy suddenly attacks Miller, giving Will a clear shot, and Will shoots Miller dead. As the townspeople emerge, Will stares at the crowd, contemptuously throws his marshal's star in the dirt, and leaves town with Amy.  In the end, Will faces Miller and his gang alone. Kane guns down Ben Miller and Colby, but is wounded in the process. Helen and Amy both board the train, but Amy gets off when she hears the sound of gunfire. Amy chooses her new husband's life over her religious beliefs, shooting Pierce from behind. Miller then takes her hostage to force Will into the open. However, Amy suddenly attacks Miller, giving Will a clear shot, and Will shoots Miller dead. As the townspeople emerge, Will stares at the crowd, contemptuously throws his marshal's star in the dirt, and leaves town with Amy.  The plot's sequence of events occurs in approximate real time.  The plot's sequence of events occurs in approximate   real time  real time  . 