  A young woman named Chrissie Watkins leaves an evening beach party on New England's Amity Island to go skinny dipping in the Atlantic Ocean, only to be dragged back and forth and then pulled under the water. Amity's police chief, Martin Brody, is notified that Chrissie is missing, and Deputy Hendricks finds her remains on the beach. The medical examiner informs Brody that she was killed by a shark. Brody plans to close the beaches but is overruled by Mayor Larry Vaughan, who fears that reports of a shark attack will ruin the summer tourist season, the town's primary source of income. The medical examiner consequently attributes the death to a boating accident. Brody reluctantly goes along with the explanation.  A young woman named Chrissie Watkins leaves an evening beach party on   New England  New England  's Amity Island to go   skinny dipping  skinny dipping   in the Atlantic Ocean, only to be dragged back and forth and then pulled under the water. Amity's police chief, Martin Brody, is notified that Chrissie is missing, and Deputy Hendricks finds her remains on the beach. The medical examiner informs Brody that she was killed by a shark. Brody plans to close the beaches but is overruled by Mayor Larry Vaughan, who fears that reports of a shark attack will ruin the summer tourist season, the town's primary source of income. The medical examiner consequently attributes the death to a boating accident. Brody reluctantly goes along with the explanation.  A short time later, a boy is killed by a shark at the beach. The boy's mother places a bounty on the shark, sparking an amateur shark-hunting frenzy and attracting the attention of local professional shark hunter Quint. Marine biologist Matt Hooper examines Chrissie's remains and determines that she was unquestionably killed by a shark, not a boat.  A short time later, a boy is killed by a shark at the beach. The boy's mother places a bounty on the shark, sparking an amateur shark-hunting frenzy and attracting the attention of local professional shark hunter Quint. Marine biologist Matt Hooper examines Chrissie's remains and determines that she was unquestionably killed by a shark, not a boat.  A large tiger shark is caught by fishermen, leading the townspeople to believe the problem is solved, but Hooper is unconvinced and asks to examine its stomach contents. Vaughan refuses to make the autopsy public, so Brody and Hooper return after dark and discover the dead shark does not contain human remains. They come across the half-sunken wreckage of a boat belonging to local fisherman Ben Gardner. Hooper explores the vessel underwater and discovers a sizable shark's tooth protruding from the damaged hull before he is startled by Gardner's remains. Vaughan refuses to close the beaches, and on the Fourth of July many tourists arrive. A children's practical joke causes panic at the main beach while the shark enters a nearby estuary, killing a man; Brody's son, who witnesses the attack, goes into shock. Brody persuades Vaughan to hire Quint, who reluctantly allows Hooper to join the hunt along with Brody. The three set out to catch and kill the shark aboard Quint's vessel, the Orca.  A large   tiger shark  tiger shark   is caught by fishermen, leading the townspeople to believe the problem is solved, but Hooper is unconvinced and asks to examine its stomach contents. Vaughan refuses to make the autopsy public, so Brody and Hooper return after dark and discover the dead shark does not contain human remains. They come across the half-sunken wreckage of a boat belonging to local fisherman Ben Gardner. Hooper explores the vessel underwater and discovers a sizable shark's tooth protruding from the damaged   hull  hull   before he is startled by Gardner's remains. Vaughan refuses to close the beaches, and on the Fourth of July many tourists arrive. A children's practical joke causes panic at the main beach while the shark enters a nearby   estuary  estuary  , killing a man; Brody's son, who witnesses the attack, goes into shock. Brody persuades Vaughan to hire Quint, who reluctantly allows Hooper to join the hunt along with Brody. The three set out to catch and kill the shark aboard Quint's vessel, the   Orca  Orca  .  Brody is given the task of laying a chum line while Quint uses fishing tackle to try to hook the shark. An enormous great white shark looms up behind the boat, and the trio watch it circle the Orca while Hooper takes pictures for research. Quint harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel, but the shark pulls the barrel under and disappears.  Brody is given the task of laying a   chum  chum   line while Quint uses fishing tackle to try to hook the shark. An enormous   great white shark  great white shark   looms up behind the boat, and the trio watch it circle the   Orca  Orca   while Hooper takes pictures for research. Quint harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel, but the shark pulls the barrel under and disappears.  The men retire to the boat's cabin, where Quint relates his experience with sharks as a survivor of the sinking of the warship USS Indianapolis during the War in the Pacific in 1945. The shark reappears, damaging the boat's hull before slipping away. In the morning, Brody attempts to call the Coast Guard, but Quint destroys the radio. After a long chase, Quint harpoons another barrel to the shark. The men tie it to the stern, but the shark drags the boat backward, forcing water onto the deck and flooding the engine. Quint heads toward shore, hoping to draw it into shallow waters and suffocate it. Intent to kill the shark, Quint overtaxes and stalls the Orca's engines.  The men retire to the boat's cabin, where Quint relates his experience with sharks as a survivor of the sinking of the warship   USS Indianapolis  USS   Indianapolis  Indianapolis   during the   War in the Pacific  War in the Pacific   in 1945. The shark reappears, damaging the boat's hull before slipping away. In the morning, Brody attempts to call the   Coast Guard  Coast Guard  , but Quint destroys the radio. After a long chase, Quint harpoons another barrel to the shark. The men tie it to the stern, but the shark drags the boat backward, forcing water onto the deck and flooding the engine. Quint heads toward shore, hoping to draw it into shallow waters and   suffocate  suffocate   it. Intent to kill the shark, Quint overtaxes and stalls the   Orca'  Orca'  s engines.  With the boat immobilized, the trio attempt a desperate approach: Hooper dons scuba gear and enters the ocean inside a shark proof cage, aiming to stab the shark with a hypodermic spear filled with strychnine. When the shark attacks the cage, Hooper drops his spear but manages to escape to the seabed. As Quint and Brody raise the mangled cage, the shark leaps onto the boat, crushing the transom. Quint slips down the deck into the shark's mouth and is eaten alive. When the shark attacks Brody, he shoves a pressurized scuba tank into its mouth, then takes Quint's rifle and climbs the sinking Orca '​s mast. Brody shoots at the scuba tank, blowing it and the shark to pieces. Hooper emerges, and the two make rafts out of the Orca '​s remains to paddle back to Amity Island.  With the boat immobilized, the trio attempt a desperate approach: Hooper dons   scuba gear  scuba gear   and enters the ocean inside a   shark proof cage  shark proof cage  , aiming to stab the shark with a hypodermic spear filled with   strychnine  strychnine  . When the shark attacks the cage, Hooper drops his spear but manages to escape to the seabed. As Quint and Brody raise the mangled cage, the shark leaps onto the boat, crushing the   transom  transom  . Quint slips down the deck into the shark's mouth and is eaten alive. When the shark attacks Brody, he shoves a pressurized scuba tank into its mouth, then takes Quint's rifle and climbs the sinking   Orca  Orca   '​s mast. Brody shoots at the scuba tank, blowing it and the shark to pieces. Hooper emerges, and the two make rafts out of the   Orca  Orca   '​s remains to paddle back to Amity Island. 