  In Edwardian London, in the Covent Garden area on a rainy night after the opera, a poor Cockney flower seller, Eliza Doolittle, overhears Professor Henry Higgins, an arrogant, irascible teacher of elocution, boast of his knowledge of the English language. He opines that the accent and tone of voice determine a person's prospects in society. He boasts to a new acquaintance, Colonel Hugh Pickering, himself an expert in phonetics, that he could teach the flower seller to speak so "properly" that he could pass her off as a duchess at an embassy ball or an assistant in a flower shop. Eliza listens carefully and the next day shows up unannounced at the professor's flat, willing to pay for elocution lessons. He has piqued in her an ambition to work in a flower shop, but her thick accent excludes her from that social class of work. Higgins takes up the challenge, Pickering offers to pay for her elocution lessons, and the bet is on. Eliza is dragged upstairs by housekeeper Mrs. Pearce and the maids to have her first bath. She will live in the house while she learns the ways of the upper class.  In   Edwardian  Edwardian     London  London  , in the Covent Garden area on a rainy night after the opera, a poor Cockney flower seller, Eliza Doolittle, overhears Professor Henry Higgins, an arrogant, irascible teacher of elocution, boast of his knowledge of the English language. He opines that the accent and tone of voice determine a person's prospects in society. He boasts to a new acquaintance, Colonel Hugh Pickering, himself an expert in phonetics, that he could teach the flower seller to speak so "properly" that he could pass her off as a duchess at an embassy   ball  ball   or an assistant in a flower shop. Eliza listens carefully and the next day shows up unannounced at the professor's flat, willing to pay for elocution lessons. He has piqued in her an ambition to work in a flower shop, but her thick accent excludes her from that social class of work. Higgins takes up the challenge, Pickering offers to pay for her elocution lessons, and the bet is on. Eliza is dragged upstairs by housekeeper Mrs. Pearce and the maids to have her first bath. She will live in the house while she learns the ways of the upper class.  Eliza's father, Alfred P. Doolittle, an alcoholic dustman, shows up three days later, ostensibly to protect his daughter's virtue in what he assumes to be a sexual situation. He actually wants to extract £5 from Higgins in exchange for Eliza. Higgins, though horrified, is impressed by the man's honesty and natural gift of rhetoric, and amused by his brazen argument for a lack of morals. Higgins suggests that Doolittle's original ideas might be of interest to a wealthy American he knows. Eliza undergoes exhausting forms of speech training, such as speaking with marbles in her mouth, enduring Higgins' harsh approach to teaching and his dismissive treatment of her personally. She makes little progress at first. Just as she, Higgins, and Pickering are about to give up, though, Eliza finally is able to pronounce vowels without her Cockney accent—the beginning of her vocal transformation. She soon begins to speak with an impeccable upper class accent.  Eliza's father, Alfred P. Doolittle, an alcoholic   dustman  dustman  , shows up three days later, ostensibly to protect his daughter's virtue in what he assumes to be a sexual situation. He actually wants to extract £5 from Higgins in exchange for Eliza. Higgins, though horrified, is impressed by the man's honesty and natural gift of rhetoric, and amused by his brazen argument for a lack of morals. Higgins suggests that Doolittle's original ideas might be of interest to a wealthy American he knows. Eliza undergoes exhausting forms of speech training, such as speaking with marbles in her mouth, enduring Higgins' harsh approach to teaching and his dismissive treatment of her personally. She makes little progress at first. Just as she, Higgins, and Pickering are about to give up, though, Eliza finally is able to pronounce vowels without her Cockney accent—the beginning of her vocal transformation. She soon begins to speak with an impeccable   upper class accent  upper class accent  .  As a test, Higgins takes her to the Ascot Racecourse, where Higgins' mother tells him to go home, saying he will probably insult her friends, as usual. Higgins persists, however, and Eliza is introduced to the small assembled group, having been admonished to discuss only the weather and everybody's general health. She at first makes a good impression with her magnificent gown and picture hat, ramrod-straight posture, perfect elocution and exaggeratedly genteel manners. Higgins covers her lapses by suggesting that Eliza is speaking the new "small talk." Freddy Eynsford-Hill is instantly smitten, gives Eliza his betting ticket, and is further delighted when she erupts with a screaming vulgarity while encouraging that horse to win the race. Higgins, who dislikes the pretentiousness of the upper class, partly conceals a grin behind his hand, while Colonel Pickering covers his face with his hat. A woman faints.  As a test, Higgins takes her to the   Ascot Racecourse  Ascot Racecourse  , where Higgins' mother tells him to go home, saying he will probably insult her friends, as usual. Higgins persists, however, and Eliza is introduced to the small assembled group, having been admonished to discuss only the weather and everybody's general health. She at first makes a good impression with her magnificent gown and picture hat, ramrod-straight posture, perfect elocution and exaggeratedly genteel manners. Higgins covers her lapses by suggesting that Eliza is speaking the new "small talk." Freddy Eynsford-Hill is instantly smitten, gives Eliza his betting ticket, and is further delighted when she erupts with a screaming vulgarity while encouraging that horse to win the race. Higgins, who dislikes the pretentiousness of the upper class, partly conceals a grin behind his hand, while Colonel Pickering covers his face with his hat. A woman faints.  After several more weeks of coaching, Eliza is ready for the embassy ball, descending Higgins' staircase like a queen. At the ball, she is introduced as a cousin of Colonel Pickering's and makes a great splash with her regal demeanor and the express approval of the queen of Transylvania, who allows the mysterious young woman to dance with her son, the prince. Zoltan Karpathy, a pompous Hungarian phonetics expert once trained by Higgins, vows to uncover the identity of the elegant stranger. Higgins allows Eliza to dance with him, after which he announces to the hostess that Eliza must be a Hungarian princess—a finding that Higgins openly laughs at.  After several more weeks of coaching, Eliza is ready for the embassy ball, descending Higgins' staircase like a queen. At the ball, she is introduced as a cousin of Colonel Pickering's and makes a great splash with her regal demeanor and the express approval of the queen of Transylvania, who allows the mysterious young woman to dance with her son, the prince. Zoltan Karpathy, a pompous Hungarian phonetics expert once trained by Higgins, vows to uncover the identity of the elegant stranger. Higgins allows Eliza to dance with him, after which he announces to the hostess that Eliza must be a Hungarian princess—a finding that Higgins openly laughs at.  Back home in Higgins' flat, Eliza is given hardly any credit, as Higgins and the Colonel praise each other. This, and his callous treatment towards her afterwards, especially his indifference to her future, make her furious. To add insult to injury, he gives her instructions about his morning coffee and stalks out, returning only to ask for his slippers. She throws them at him, and angrily asks him what she may take with her when she leaves. Higgins is mystified by her behavior, thinking she ought to be grateful. As she leaves with her suitcase, she finds Freddy outside the flat. He professes his love, but she is indifferent to his meek advances. With him, Eliza returns to Covent Garden, the site of her flower-selling days. She buys flowers from a flower vendor, hoping to be recognized, but people see her only as a fine lady. She no longer fits in there, either. Then she runs into her father in formal clothes, enjoying one last night of merriment before marrying Eliza's stepmother. He has been left a large fortune by the wealthy American and complains that Higgins has ruined him, since he is now bound unwillingly by middle-class morals and responsibility.  Back home in Higgins' flat, Eliza is given hardly any credit, as Higgins and the Colonel praise each other. This, and his callous treatment towards her afterwards, especially his indifference to her future, make her furious. To add insult to injury, he gives her instructions about his morning coffee and stalks out, returning only to ask for his slippers. She throws them at him, and angrily asks him what she may take with her when she leaves. Higgins is mystified by her behavior, thinking she ought to be grateful. As she leaves with her suitcase, she finds Freddy outside the flat. He professes his love, but she is indifferent to his meek advances. With him, Eliza returns to Covent Garden, the site of her flower-selling days. She buys flowers from a flower vendor, hoping to be recognized, but people see her only as a fine lady. She no longer fits in there, either. Then she runs into her father in formal clothes, enjoying one last night of merriment before marrying Eliza's stepmother. He has been left a large fortune by the wealthy American and complains that Higgins has ruined him, since he is now bound unwillingly by middle-class morals and responsibility.  Higgins misses Eliza and goes searching for her, eventually ending up at his mother's house. There he unexpectedly finds Eliza. Mrs. Higgins has sided entirely with Eliza and against her son. After an unsuccessful attempt at persuading Eliza to return to his flat, Higgins is outraged when Eliza announces that she will marry Freddy and become Karpathy's assistant in teaching what Higgins taught her. He explodes and Eliza is satisfied that she has enjoyed a small measure of retaliation. Higgins has to admit that rather than being "a millstone around my neck... now you're a tower of strength, a consort battleship. I like you this way." Eliza leaves, saying they will never meet again. After an argument with his mother—in which he asserts that he does not need Eliza or anyone else—Higgins makes his way home, stubbornly predicting that Eliza will come crawling back. However, he comes to the realization that he has "grown accustomed to her face." Then, to his surprise, Eliza reappears in Higgins' study. He realizes Eliza's worth and that he loves her and she has discovered that, despite all his bluster, he deeply cares for her after all.  Higgins misses Eliza and goes searching for her, eventually ending up at his mother's house. There he unexpectedly finds Eliza. Mrs. Higgins has sided entirely with Eliza and against her son. After an unsuccessful attempt at persuading Eliza to return to his flat, Higgins is outraged when Eliza announces that she will marry Freddy and become Karpathy's assistant in teaching what Higgins taught her. He explodes and Eliza is satisfied that she has enjoyed a small measure of retaliation. Higgins has to admit that rather than being "a millstone around my neck... now you're a tower of strength, a consort battleship. I like you this way." Eliza leaves, saying they will never meet again. After an argument with his mother—in which he asserts that he does not need Eliza or anyone else—Higgins makes his way home, stubbornly predicting that Eliza will come crawling back. However, he comes to the realization that he has "grown accustomed to her face." Then, to his surprise, Eliza reappears in Higgins' study. He realizes Eliza's worth and that he loves her and she has discovered that, despite all his bluster, he deeply cares for her after all. 