  Advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill is mistaken for George Kaplan and kidnapped by Valerian and Licht. The two take him to the Long Island estate of Lester Townsend. He is interrogated by a man he assumes to be Townsend, but who is actually spy Phillip Vandamm. Vandamm's "associate" Leonard intends to get rid of Thornhill once they finish questioning him.  Advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill is mistaken for George Kaplan and kidnapped by Valerian and Licht. The two take him to the   Long Island  Long Island   estate of Lester Townsend. He is interrogated by a man he assumes to be Townsend, but who is actually spy Phillip Vandamm. Vandamm's "associate" Leonard intends to get rid of Thornhill once they finish questioning him.  Thornhill is forced to drink bourbon, but manages to escape a staged driving accident. He is unable to get the authorities or even his mother to believe what happened, especially when a woman at Townsend's residence says he got drunk at her dinner party; she also remarks that Townsend is a United Nations diplomat.  Thornhill is forced to drink bourbon, but manages to escape a staged driving accident. He is unable to get the authorities or even his mother to believe what happened, especially when a woman at Townsend's residence says he got drunk at her dinner party; she also remarks that Townsend is a   United Nations  United Nations   diplomat.  Thornhill and his mother go to Kaplan's hotel room. While there, Thornhill answers the phone; it is one of Vandamm's henchmen. Avoiding recapture, he goes to the U.N. General Assembly building to see Townsend, but finds that the diplomat is a stranger. Valerian throws a knife which hits Townsend in the back. He falls dead into Thornhill's arms. Without thinking, Thornhill removes the knife, making it appear that he is the killer. He is forced to flee.  Thornhill and his mother go to Kaplan's hotel room. While there, Thornhill answers the phone; it is one of Vandamm's henchmen. Avoiding recapture, he goes to the   U.N. General Assembly building  U.N. General Assembly building   to see Townsend, but finds that the diplomat is a stranger. Valerian throws a knife which hits Townsend in the back. He falls dead into Thornhill's arms. Without thinking, Thornhill removes the knife, making it appear that he is the killer. He is forced to flee.Thornhill (Grant) on the run, attempting to travel incognito.Thornhill (Grant) on the run, attempting to travel incognito.Thornhill (Grant) on the run, attempting to travel incognito.Thornhill (Grant) on the run, attempting to travel incognito.  Knowing that Kaplan has a reservation at a Chicago hotel the next day, Thornhill sneaks onto the 20th Century Limited. He meets Eve Kendall, who hides Thornhill from policemen searching the train. Unknown to Thornhill, Eve is working with Vandamm and Leonard, who are in another compartment with Valerian. In Chicago, Kendall tells Thornhill she has arranged a meeting with Kaplan.  Knowing that Kaplan has a reservation at a   Chicago  Chicago   hotel the next day, Thornhill sneaks onto the   20th Century Limited  20th Century Limited  20th Century Limited  . He meets Eve Kendall, who hides Thornhill from policemen searching the train. Unknown to Thornhill, Eve is working with Vandamm and Leonard, who are in another compartment with Valerian. In Chicago, Kendall tells Thornhill she has arranged a meeting with Kaplan.Thornhill (Grant) stopping a truck while being attacked by the crop-duster plane. (Screenshot from the film trailer.)Thornhill (Grant) stopping a truck while being attacked by the crop-duster plane. (Screenshot from the film trailer.)Thornhill (Grant) stopping a truck while being attacked by the crop-duster plane. (Screenshot from the film trailer.)Thornhill (Grant) stopping a truck while being attacked by the crop-duster plane. (Screenshot from the film trailer.)  Thornhill travels by bus to an isolated crossroads. A crop duster dives toward Thornhill, narrowly missing him. He hides in a cornfield after the assailants fire at him with an automatic weapon, but the airplane dusts it with pesticide, forcing him out. He steps in front of a speeding tank truck, which stops barely in time. The airplane crashes into the tanker.  Thornhill travels by bus to an isolated crossroads. A   crop duster  crop duster   dives toward Thornhill, narrowly missing him. He hides in a cornfield after the assailants fire at him with an automatic weapon, but the airplane dusts it with pesticide, forcing him out. He steps in front of a speeding   tank truck  tank truck  , which stops barely in time. The airplane crashes into the tanker.  Learning that Kaplan had checked out before Kendall claimed to have talked to him over the phone, Thornhill goes to Kendall's room. While he is cleaning up, she leaves. From the impression of a message written on a notepad, he learns her destination: an art auction. There he finds Vandamm, Leonard and Kendall. Vandamm purchases a Tarascan statue and departs. Thornhill tries to follow, only to find the exits covered by Valerian and Leonard. Trapped, he places nonsensical bids so that the police will be called to escort him away. Thornhill identifies himself as the fugitive wanted for Townsend's murder and demands to be jailed, but the arresting officers clandestinely take him to the Professor instead. The Professor reveals that Kaplan does not exist. He was invented to distract Vandamm from the real government agent: Kendall. As he has inadvertently put Kendall's life in danger, Thornhill agrees to help maintain her cover.  Learning that Kaplan had checked out before Kendall claimed to have talked to him over the phone, Thornhill goes to Kendall's room. While he is cleaning up, she leaves. From the impression of a message written on a notepad, he learns her destination: an art auction. There he finds Vandamm, Leonard and Kendall. Vandamm purchases a   Tarascan  Tarascan   statue and departs. Thornhill tries to follow, only to find the exits covered by Valerian and Leonard. Trapped, he places nonsensical bids so that the police will be called to escort him away. Thornhill identifies himself as the fugitive wanted for Townsend's murder and demands to be jailed, but the arresting officers clandestinely take him to the Professor instead. The Professor reveals that Kaplan does not exist. He was invented to distract Vandamm from the real government agent: Kendall. As he has inadvertently put Kendall's life in danger, Thornhill agrees to help maintain her cover.  At the Mount Rushmore visitor center, Thornhill poses as Kaplan to negotiate Vandamm's turn over of Kendall for her prosecution as a spy. The deal is derailed when "Kaplan" confronts Kendall; she fires a handgun (later revealed to have been loaded with blanks) at him and flees. Paramedics load Thornhill in an ambulance then take him to a forest where he gets out of the ambulance uninjured. Thornhill and Kendall have a romantic goodbye in the forest, but Thornhill discovers she must not only return undercover, but go with Vandamm and Leonard on a plane to rendezvous "over there". The Professor has his driver stop Thornhill from preventing Kendall from returning, but Thornhill evades the Professor's custody and finds Vandamm's lair to rescue Kendall.  At the   Mount Rushmore  Mount Rushmore   visitor center, Thornhill poses as Kaplan to negotiate Vandamm's turn over of Kendall for her prosecution as a spy. The deal is derailed when "Kaplan" confronts Kendall; she fires a handgun (later revealed to have been loaded with   blanks  blanks  ) at him and flees. Paramedics load Thornhill in an ambulance then take him to a forest where he gets out of the ambulance uninjured. Thornhill and Kendall have a romantic goodbye in the forest, but Thornhill discovers she must not only return undercover, but go with Vandamm and Leonard on a plane to rendezvous "over there". The Professor has his driver stop Thornhill from preventing Kendall from returning, but Thornhill evades the Professor's custody and finds Vandamm's lair to rescue Kendall.  At Vandamm's house Thornhill overhears that the sculpture holds microfilm and that Leonard knew Kendall's gun was loaded with blanks, and reveals such to Vandamm. Thornhill is able to inform Kendall they plan to kill her, but is captured. His escape from the house provides a distraction for Kendall to take the sculpture and run to Thornhill. Thornhill and Kendall realize they are on top of Mount Rushmore and climb down the mountain sculpture to escape. Thornhill fights Valerian, who falls from the cliff, but Leonard pushes Kendall over the side. While Thornhill is holding onto Kendall and the cliff face, Leonard stamps on his hand. Leonard is killed by a gunshot from a park ranger in a group including the Professor and the captured Vandamm. Later, Thornhill invites Kendall onto the top cabin bunk of a train that then enters a tunnel.  At Vandamm's house Thornhill overhears that the sculpture holds microfilm and that Leonard knew Kendall's gun was loaded with blanks, and reveals such to Vandamm. Thornhill is able to inform Kendall they plan to kill her, but is captured. His escape from the house provides a distraction for Kendall to take the sculpture and run to Thornhill. Thornhill and Kendall realize they are on top of Mount Rushmore and climb down the mountain sculpture to escape. Thornhill fights Valerian, who falls from the cliff, but Leonard pushes Kendall over the side. While Thornhill is holding onto Kendall and the cliff face, Leonard stamps on his hand. Leonard is killed by a gunshot from a park ranger in a group including the Professor and the captured Vandamm. Later, Thornhill invites Kendall onto the top cabin bunk of a train that then enters a tunnel. 