  Charlie Babbitt is in the middle of importing four Lamborghinis to Los Angeles for resale. He needs to deliver the vehicles to impatient buyers who have already made down payments in order to repay the loan he took out to buy the cars, but the EPA is holding the cars at the port due to the cars failing emissions regulations. Charlie directs an employee to lie to the buyers while he stalls his creditor.  Charlie Babbitt is in the middle of importing four   Lamborghinis  Lamborghinis   to   Los Angeles  Los Angeles   for resale. He needs to deliver the vehicles to impatient buyers who have already made down payments in order to repay the loan he took out to buy the cars, but the   EPA  EPA   is holding the cars at the port due to the cars failing   emissions regulations  emissions regulations  . Charlie directs an employee to lie to the buyers while he stalls his creditor.  When Charlie learns that his estranged father has died, he and his girlfriend Susanna travel to Cincinnati, Ohio in order to settle the estate. He learns he is receiving the classic 1949 Buick Roadmaster convertible, over which he and his father fought, and his father's rosebushes, but the bulk of the $3 million estate is going to an unnamed trustee. Through social engineering he learns the money is being directed to a mental institution where he meets his older brother, Raymond Babbitt, of whose existence he was previously unaware.  When Charlie learns that his estranged father has died, he and his girlfriend Susanna travel to   Cincinnati, Ohio  Cincinnati, Ohio   in order to settle the estate. He learns he is receiving the classic 1949   Buick Roadmaster  Buick Roadmaster   convertible, over which he and his father fought, and his father's rosebushes, but the bulk of the $3 million estate is going to an unnamed   trustee  trustee  . Through   social engineering  social engineering   he learns the money is being directed to a   mental institution  mental institution   where he meets his older brother, Raymond Babbitt, of whose existence he was previously unaware.  Raymond has autism and adheres to strict routines such as always watching The People's Court. He has superb recall but he shows little emotional expression except when in distress. Charlie spirits Raymond out of the mental institution and into a hotel for the night. Susanna becomes upset with the way Charlie treats his brother and leaves. Charlie asks Raymond's doctor, Dr. Gerald R. Bruner for half the estate in exchange for Raymond's return, but he refuses. Charlie decides to attempt to gain custody of his brother in order to get control of the money.  Raymond has   autism  autism   and adheres to strict routines such as always watching   The People's Court  The People's Court  The People's Court  . He has   superb recall  superb recall   but he shows little emotional expression except when in distress. Charlie spirits Raymond out of the mental institution and into a hotel for the night. Susanna becomes upset with the way Charlie treats his brother and leaves. Charlie asks Raymond's doctor, Dr. Gerald R. Bruner for half the estate in exchange for Raymond's return, but he refuses. Charlie decides to attempt to gain custody of his brother in order to get control of the money.  After Raymond refuses to fly back to Los Angeles because he remembers every airline crash and is worried about getting hurt they set out on a cross-country road trip together. During the course of the journey, Charlie learns more about Raymond, including that he is a mental calculator with the ability to instantly count hundreds of objects at once, far beyond the normal range of human subitizing abilities. He also learns that, like him, Raymond loves The Beatles. It is revealed that Raymond actually lived with the family when Charlie was young and he realizes that the comforting figure from his childhood, whom he falsely remembered as an imaginary friend named "Rain Man", was actually Raymond.  After Raymond refuses to fly back to Los Angeles because he remembers every airline crash and is worried about getting hurt they set out on a cross-country road trip together. During the course of the journey, Charlie learns more about Raymond, including that he is a   mental calculator  mental calculator   with the ability to instantly count hundreds of objects at once, far beyond the normal range of human   subitizing  subitizing   abilities. He also learns that, like him, Raymond loves   The Beatles  The Beatles  . It is revealed that Raymond actually lived with the family when Charlie was young and he realizes that the comforting figure from his childhood, whom he falsely remembered as an imaginary friend named "Rain Man", was actually Raymond.  They make slow progress on their cross country trip because Raymond insists on sticking to his routines, which include watching Judge Wapner on television every day and getting to bed by 11:00 PM. He also objects to traveling on the interstate after they pass a bad accident.  They make slow progress on their cross country trip because Raymond insists on sticking to his routines, which include watching   Judge Wapner  Judge Wapner   on television every day and getting to bed by 11:00 PM. He also objects to traveling on the   interstate  interstate   after they pass a bad accident.  After the Lamborghinis are seized by his creditor, Charlie finds himself $80,000 in debt and hatches a plan to return to Las Vegas, which they passed the night before, and win money at blackjack by counting cards. Though the casino bosses are skeptical that anyone can count cards with a six deck shoe, after reviewing security footage they ask Charlie and Raymond to leave. However, Charlie has made enough to cover his debts and has reconciled with Susanna who rejoined them in Las Vegas.  After the Lamborghinis are seized by his creditor, Charlie finds himself $80,000 in debt and hatches a plan to return to   Las Vegas  Las Vegas  , which they passed the night before, and win money at   blackjack  blackjack   by   counting cards  counting cards  . Though the casino bosses are skeptical that anyone can count cards with a six deck   shoe  shoe  , after reviewing security footage they ask Charlie and Raymond to leave. However, Charlie has made enough to cover his debts and has reconciled with Susanna who rejoined them in Las Vegas.  Back in Los Angeles, Charlie meets with Dr. Bruner, who offers him $250,000 to walk away from Raymond. Charlie refuses and says that he is no longer upset about what his father left him, but he wants to have a relationship with his brother. At a meeting with a court-appointed psychiatrist (Levinson, in an uncredited cameo), Raymond is shown to be unable to decide for himself what he wants. Charlie stops the questioning and tells Raymond he is happy to have him as his brother.  Back in Los Angeles, Charlie meets with Dr. Bruner, who offers him $250,000 to walk away from Raymond. Charlie refuses and says that he is no longer upset about what his father left him, but he wants to have a relationship with his brother. At a meeting with a court-appointed psychiatrist (  Levinson  Levinson  , in an uncredited cameo), Raymond is shown to be unable to decide for himself what he wants. Charlie stops the questioning and tells Raymond he is happy to have him as his brother.  In the final scene, Charlie brings Raymond to the train station where he boards an Amtrak train with Dr. Bruner to return to the mental institution. Charlie promises Raymond that he will visit in two weeks.  In the final scene, Charlie brings Raymond to the train station where he boards an   Amtrak  Amtrak   train with Dr. Bruner to return to the mental institution. Charlie promises Raymond that he will visit in two weeks. 