  On the morning of June 6, 1944, the beginning of the Normandy Invasion, American soldiers prepare to land on Omaha Beach. They struggle against German infantry, machine gun nests, and artillery fire. Captain John H. Miller, a company commander of the 2nd Ranger Battalion, survives the initial landing and assembles a group of his Rangers to penetrate the German defences, leading to a breakout from the beach. In Washington, D.C, at the U.S. War Department, General George Marshall is informed that three of the four brothers of the Ryan family were killed in action and that their mother is to receive all three telegrams in the same day. He learns that the fourth son, Private First Class James Francis Ryan, is a paratrooper, and is missing in action somewhere in Normandy. Marshall, after reading Abraham Lincoln's Bixby letter, orders that Ryan be found and sent home immediately.  On the morning of June 6, 1944, the beginning of the   Normandy Invasion  Normandy Invasion  , American soldiers prepare to land on   Omaha Beach  Omaha Beach  . They struggle against German infantry, machine gun nests, and artillery fire. Captain John H. Miller, a company commander of the 2nd Ranger Battalion, survives the initial landing and assembles a group of his Rangers to penetrate the German defences, leading to a breakout from the beach. In   Washington, D.C  Washington, D.C  , at the U.S. War Department, General   George Marshall  George Marshall   is informed that three of the four brothers of the Ryan family were   killed in action  killed in action   and that their mother is to receive all three   telegrams  telegrams   in the same day. He learns that the fourth son, Private First Class James Francis Ryan, is a   paratrooper  paratrooper  , and is   missing in action  missing in action   somewhere in Normandy. Marshall, after reading   Abraham Lincoln  Abraham Lincoln  's   Bixby letter  Bixby letter  , orders that Ryan be found and sent home immediately.  Three days after D-Day, Miller receives orders to find Ryan and bring him back from the front. He assembles six men from his company— TSgt. Mike Horvath, Privates Richard Reiben, Stanley Mellish, Adrian Caparzo, Danny Jackson, medic Irwin Wade—and T/5 Timothy Upham, a cartographer who speaks French and German, loaned from another unit. Miller and his men move out to Neuville; there, they meet a platoon from the 101st Airborne Division, and Caparzo dies after being shot by a sniper. Eventually, they locate a Private James Ryan, but soon learn that he is not their man. They find a member of Ryan's regiment who informs them that his drop zone was at Vierville and that his and Ryan's companies had the same rally point. Once they reach it, Miller meets a friend of Ryan's, who reveals that Ryan is defending a strategically important bridge over the Merderet River in the town of Ramelle. On the way to Ramelle, Miller decides to neutralize a German machine gun position, despite the misgivings of his men. Wade is fatally wounded in the ensuing skirmish, but Miller prevents a surviving German from being executed and sets him free. No longer confident in Miller's leadership, Reiben declares his intention to desert the squad and the mission, prompting a confrontation with Horvath. The argument heats up until Miller defuses the situation by revealing his origins, which the squad had earlier set up a betting pool upon. Reiben then reluctantly decides to stay.  Three days after D-Day, Miller receives orders to find Ryan and bring him back from the front. He assembles six men from his company— TSgt. Mike Horvath, Privates Richard Reiben, Stanley Mellish, Adrian Caparzo, Danny Jackson, medic Irwin Wade—and T/5 Timothy Upham, a   cartographer  cartographer   who speaks French and German, loaned from another unit. Miller and his men move out to Neuville; there, they meet a platoon from the   101st Airborne Division  101st Airborne Division  , and Caparzo dies after being shot by a sniper. Eventually, they locate a Private James Ryan, but soon learn that he is not their man. They find a member of Ryan's regiment who informs them that his   drop zone  drop zone   was at   Vierville  Vierville   and that his and Ryan's companies had the same rally point. Once they reach it, Miller meets a friend of Ryan's, who reveals that Ryan is defending a strategically important bridge over the   Merderet River  Merderet River   in the town of Ramelle. On the way to Ramelle, Miller decides to neutralize a German machine gun position, despite the misgivings of his men. Wade is fatally wounded in the ensuing skirmish, but Miller prevents a surviving German from being executed and sets him free. No longer confident in Miller's leadership, Reiben declares his intention to desert the squad and the mission, prompting a confrontation with Horvath. The argument heats up until Miller defuses the situation by revealing his origins, which the squad had earlier set up a betting pool upon. Reiben then reluctantly decides to stay.  Upon arrival at Ramelle, Miller and the squad come upon a small group of paratroopers, one of whom is Ryan. Ryan is told of his brothers' deaths, the mission to bring him home, and that two men had been lost in the quest to find him. He is distressed at the loss of his brothers, but does not feel it is fair to go home, asking Miller to tell his mother that he intends to stay "with the only brothers [he has] left." Miller decides to take command and defend the bridge with what little manpower and resources are available. Elements of the 2nd SS Panzer Division arrive with infantry and armor. In the ensuing battle, while inflicting heavy German casualties, most of the Americans—including Jackson, Mellish, and Horvath—are killed. While attempting to blow the bridge, Miller is shot and mortally wounded by the German prisoner set free earlier, who has returned to battle alongside the SS. Just before a Tiger tank reaches the bridge, an American P-51 Mustang flies over and destroys it, followed by American reinforcements who rout the remaining Germans. Upham executes the German who shot Miller and allows the rest to flee.  Upon arrival at Ramelle, Miller and the squad come upon a small group of paratroopers, one of whom is Ryan. Ryan is told of his brothers' deaths, the mission to bring him home, and that two men had been lost in the quest to find him. He is distressed at the loss of his brothers, but does not feel it is fair to go home, asking Miller to tell his mother that he intends to stay "with the only brothers [he has] left." Miller decides to take command and defend the bridge with what little manpower and resources are available. Elements of the   2nd SS Panzer Division  2nd SS Panzer Division   arrive with infantry and armor. In the ensuing battle, while inflicting heavy German casualties, most of the Americans—including Jackson, Mellish, and Horvath—are killed. While attempting to blow the bridge, Miller is shot and mortally wounded by the German prisoner set free earlier, who has returned to battle alongside the SS. Just before a   Tiger tank  Tiger tank   reaches the bridge, an American   P-51 Mustang  P-51 Mustang   flies over and destroys it, followed by American reinforcements who rout the remaining Germans. Upham executes the German who shot Miller and allows the rest to flee.  Reiben and Ryan are with Miller as he dies and says his last words, "James ... earn this. Earn it." In the present day, the elderly Ryan and his family visit the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial. Ryan stands at Miller's grave and asks his wife to confirm that he has led a good life, that he is a "good man" and thus worthy of the sacrifice of Miller and the others. His wife replies "You are." At this point, Ryan stands at attention and delivers a military salute towards Miller's grave.  Reiben and Ryan are with Miller as he dies and says his last words, "James ... earn this. Earn it." In the present day, the elderly Ryan and his family visit the   Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial  Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial  . Ryan stands at Miller's grave and asks his wife to confirm that he has led a good life, that he is a "good man" and thus worthy of the sacrifice of Miller and the others. His wife replies "You are." At this point, Ryan stands at attention and delivers a military   salute  salute   towards Miller's grave. 