Alan Ladd and Jean ArthurAlan Ladd and Jean ArthurAlan Ladd and Jean ArthurAlan Ladd and Jean Arthur  Shane (Alan Ladd), a drifter wearing buckskin and a six shooter, rides into an isolated valley in the sparsely settled state of Wyoming some time after enactment of the Homestead Act of 1862. A skilled gunslinger with a mysterious past, Shane is invited to dinner by homesteader Joe Starrett (Van Heflin) and his wife, Marian (Jean Arthur), and learns of an ongoing conflict between the valley's homesteaders and the ruthless cattle baron Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer), who is trying to drive the ranchers out of the valley and seize their land. Starrett offers Shane a job as a farmhand, and he accepts.  Shane (  Alan Ladd  Alan Ladd  ), a drifter wearing   buckskin  buckskin   and a   six shooter  six shooter  , rides into an isolated valley in the sparsely settled state of   Wyoming  Wyoming   some time after enactment of the   Homestead Act  Homestead Act   of 1862. A skilled   gunslinger  gunslinger   with a mysterious past, Shane is invited to dinner by   homesteader  homesteader   Joe Starrett (  Van Heflin  Van Heflin  ) and his wife, Marian (  Jean Arthur  Jean Arthur  ), and learns of an ongoing conflict between the valley's homesteaders and the ruthless cattle baron Rufus Ryker (  Emile Meyer  Emile Meyer  ), who is trying to drive the ranchers out of the valley and seize their land. Starrett offers Shane a job as a   farmhand  farmhand  , and he accepts.  Shane rides into town with Starrett and other homesteaders to pick up supplies at the general store. In the saloon adjacent to the store, where Ryker's men are drinking, Shane orders a soda pop. Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson), one of Ryker's men, throws a shot of whiskey on Shane's shirt. "Smell like a man!" he taunts; but Shane, cautioned by Starrett to avoid trouble, doesn't rise to the bait. At their next encounter Calloway continues to incite Shane. This time, Shane orders two shots of whiskey, pours one on Calloway's shirt and throws the other in his face, then knocks him to the ground. A brawl ensues; Ryker's men gang up on Shane but he prevails, with Starrett's help. Ryker declares that the next time Shane or Starrett ride into town, "the air will be filled with gunsmoke."  Shane rides into town with Starrett and other homesteaders to pick up supplies at the general store. In the saloon adjacent to the store, where Ryker's men are drinking, Shane orders a soda pop. Chris Calloway (  Ben Johnson  Ben Johnson  ), one of Ryker's men, throws a shot of whiskey on Shane's shirt. "Smell like a man!" he taunts; but Shane, cautioned by Starrett to avoid trouble, doesn't rise to the bait. At their next encounter Calloway continues to incite Shane. This time, Shane orders two shots of whiskey, pours one on Calloway's shirt and throws the other in his face, then knocks him to the ground. A brawl ensues; Ryker's men gang up on Shane but he prevails, with Starrett's help. Ryker declares that the next time Shane or Starrett ride into town, "the air will be filled with gunsmoke."  Starrett's son Joey (Brandon deWilde) is drawn to Shane and his gun, and asks Shane to teach him how to shoot. Shane shows him how to wear a holster and demonstrates his shooting skills on a target Joey picks out; but Marian interrupts the lesson. Guns, she says, are not going to be a part of her son's life. There is an obvious, mysterious attraction between Shane and Marian. Shane counters that a gun is a tool, no better nor worse than an axe, shovel, or any other tool. A gun, he says, is as good or as bad as the man using it. Marian retorts that everyone would be better off if there weren't any guns, including Shane's, in the valley.  Starrett's son Joey (  Brandon deWilde  Brandon deWilde  ) is drawn to Shane and his gun, and asks Shane to teach him how to shoot. Shane shows him how to wear a holster and demonstrates his shooting skills on a target Joey picks out; but Marian interrupts the lesson. Guns, she says, are not going to be a part of her son's life. There is an obvious, mysterious attraction between Shane and Marian. Shane counters that a gun is a tool, no better nor worse than an axe, shovel, or any other tool. A gun, he says, is as good or as bad as the man using it. Marian retorts that everyone would be better off if there weren't any guns, including Shane's, in the valley.  As tensions mount, Ryker hires Jack Wilson (Jack Palance), an unscrupulous, psychopathic gunfighter. Frank "Stonewall" Torrey (Elisha Cook, Jr.), a hot-tempered ex-Confederate Alabama homesteader, is his first victim. Stonewall Jackson, Robert E. Lee, and "all the rest of them Rebs" are trash, Wilson says. Infuriated, Torrey calls Wilson a "low-down, lying Yankee". "Prove it," Wilson replies — and when the inexperienced farmer tries to draw his gun, shoots him dead.  As tensions mount, Ryker hires Jack Wilson (  Jack Palance  Jack Palance  ), an unscrupulous,   psychopathic  psychopathic   gunfighter. Frank "Stonewall" Torrey (  Elisha Cook, Jr.  Elisha Cook, Jr.  ), a hot-tempered ex-Confederate   Alabama  Alabama   homesteader, is his first victim.   Stonewall Jackson  Stonewall Jackson  ,   Robert E. Lee  Robert E. Lee  , and "all the rest of them Rebs" are trash, Wilson says. Infuriated, Torrey calls Wilson a "low-down, lying Yankee". "Prove it," Wilson replies — and when the inexperienced farmer tries to draw his gun, shoots him dead.  Fear spreads through the valley. At Torrey's funeral many ranchers talk of leaving; but after they unite to fight a fire set by Ryker's men, they find new determination, and resolve to continue the fight against Ryker's evil ambitions.  Fear spreads through the valley. At Torrey's funeral many ranchers talk of leaving; but after they unite to fight a fire set by Ryker's men, they find new determination, and resolve to continue the fight against Ryker's evil ambitions.  Ryker invites Starrett to a meeting at the saloon to negotiate a settlement — and then orders Wilson to kill him when he arrives. Calloway, unable to tolerate Ryker's treachery any longer, warns Shane of the double-cross. Starrett says he will shoot it out with Wilson if he has to, and asks Shane to look after Marian and Joey if he dies. Shane says he must go instead, because Starrett is no match for Wilson. Starrett is adamant, and Shane is forced to knock him unconscious, to Joey's dismay. Shane departs for the showdown, despite Marian's tearful pleas. Is he doing this for her, she asks? Yes, replies Shane; and for Joey, and for all the decent people who want a chance to live in peace in the valley.  Ryker invites Starrett to a meeting at the saloon to negotiate a settlement — and then orders Wilson to kill him when he arrives. Calloway, unable to tolerate Ryker's treachery any longer, warns Shane of the double-cross. Starrett says he will shoot it out with Wilson if he has to, and asks Shane to look after Marian and Joey if he dies. Shane says he must go instead, because Starrett is no match for Wilson. Starrett is adamant, and Shane is forced to knock him unconscious, to Joey's dismay. Shane departs for the showdown, despite Marian's tearful pleas. Is he doing this for her, she asks? Yes, replies Shane; and for Joey, and for all the decent people who want a chance to live in peace in the valley.  Shane enters the saloon. He and Ryker are both relics of the Old West, he says, but Ryker hasn't realized it yet. Then he turns to Wilson; "I hear that you're a low-down, Yankee liar," he says. Wilson grins, and once again replies, "Prove it." Shane kills Wilson with two shots, then kills Ryker as he draws a hidden gun. Ryker's brother Morgan aims a rifle at Shane from a balcony overhead; but Joey, who has followed Shane into town, shouts a warning, and Shane shoots Morgan Ryker as well.  Shane enters the saloon. He and Ryker are both relics of the   Old West  Old West  , he says, but Ryker hasn't realized it yet. Then he turns to Wilson; "I hear that you're a low-down, Yankee liar," he says. Wilson grins, and once again replies, "Prove it." Shane kills Wilson with two shots, then kills Ryker as he draws a hidden gun. Ryker's brother Morgan aims a rifle at Shane from a balcony overhead; but Joey, who has followed Shane into town, shouts a warning, and Shane shoots Morgan Ryker as well.  The battle is over, the settlers have won, and Shane tells Joey that he must move on. "Now you run on home to your mother," he says, "and tell her ... tell her everything's alright. And there aren't any more guns in the valley." As Joey reaches out to Shane, blood drips onto his hands; Shane's left arm hangs limply at his side as he mounts his horse. He rides out of town, past the grave markers on Cemetery Hill and toward the mountains, his body slumped forward in the saddle, ignoring Joey's desperate cries of "Shane! Come back!"  The battle is over, the settlers have won, and Shane tells Joey that he must move on. "Now you run on home to your mother," he says, "and tell her ... tell her everything's alright. And there aren't any more guns in the valley." As Joey reaches out to Shane, blood drips onto his hands; Shane's left arm hangs limply at his side as he mounts his horse. He rides out of town, past the grave markers on Cemetery Hill and toward the mountains, his body slumped forward in the saddle, ignoring Joey's desperate cries of "Shane! Come back!" 