  Prince Albert, Duke of York, the second son of King George V, stammers through his speech closing the 1925 British Empire Exhibition at Wembley Stadium, while the resulting ordeal is being broadcast by radio worldwide. The Duke has given up hope of a cure, but his wife Elizabeth persuades him to see Lionel Logue, an Australian speech therapist in London. During their first session, Logue breaches royal etiquette by referring to the Prince as "Bertie," a name used by his family. When the Duke decides Logue's methods and manner are unsuitable, Logue wagers a shilling that the Duke can recite Hamlet's "To be, or not to be" soliloquy without trouble while listening to "The Marriage of Figaro" on headphones. Logue records his performance on an acetate record. Convinced he has stammered throughout, Prince Albert leaves in anger, declaring his condition "hopeless" and dismissing Logue. Logue offers him the recording as a keepsake.  Prince Albert, Duke of York  Prince Albert, Duke of York  , the second son of   King George V  King George V  , stammers through his speech closing the 1925   British Empire Exhibition  British Empire Exhibition   at   Wembley Stadium  Wembley Stadium  , while the resulting ordeal is being broadcast by radio worldwide. The Duke has given up hope of a cure, but his wife   Elizabeth  Elizabeth   persuades him to see   Lionel Logue  Lionel Logue  , an Australian speech therapist in London. During their first session, Logue breaches royal etiquette by referring to the Prince as "Bertie," a name used by his family. When the Duke decides Logue's methods and manner are unsuitable, Logue wagers a   shilling  shilling   that the Duke can recite   Hamlet  Hamlet  's "  To be, or not to be  To be, or not to be  " soliloquy without trouble while listening to "  The Marriage of Figaro  The Marriage of Figaro  " on headphones. Logue records his performance on an   acetate record  acetate record  . Convinced he has stammered throughout, Prince Albert leaves in anger, declaring his condition "hopeless" and dismissing Logue. Logue offers him the recording as a keepsake.1934 photograph of George V delivering the Royal Christmas Message; an image recreated in the film.1934 photograph of George V delivering the Royal Christmas Message; an image recreated in the film.1934 photograph of George V delivering the Royal Christmas Message; an image recreated in the film.1934 photograph of George V delivering the Royal Christmas Message; an image recreated in the film.  After King George V makes his 1934 Christmas radio address, he explains to his son the importance of broadcasting to a modern monarchy. He declares that "David" (Edward, Prince of Wales), Albert's older brother and the heir to the throne, will bring ruin to himself, the family, and the country when he accedes to the throne- leaving continental Europe to the mercy of Nazi Germany and Communist Russia. King George demands that Albert train himself, starting with a reading of his father's speech. He makes an agonising attempt to do so.  After King George V makes his 1934   Christmas radio address  Christmas radio address  , he explains to his son the importance of broadcasting to a modern monarchy. He declares that "David" (  Edward, Prince of Wales  Edward, Prince of Wales  ), Albert's older brother and the   heir to the throne  heir to the throne  , will bring ruin to himself, the family, and the country when he accedes to the throne- leaving continental Europe to the mercy of Nazi Germany and Communist Russia. King George demands that Albert train himself, starting with a reading of his father's speech. He makes an agonising attempt to do so.  Later, the Duke plays Logue's recording and hears himself unhesitatingly reciting Shakespeare. He decides to return to Logue, where he and his wife both insist that Logue focus only on physical exercises. Logue teaches his patient muscle relaxation and breath control techniques but continues to probe gently and persistently at the psychological roots of the stutter. The Duke eventually reveals some of the pressures of his childhood, and the two men start to become friends.  Later, the Duke plays Logue's recording and hears himself unhesitatingly reciting Shakespeare. He decides to return to Logue, where he and his wife both insist that Logue focus only on physical exercises. Logue teaches his patient muscle relaxation and breath control techniques but continues to probe gently and persistently at the psychological roots of the stutter. The Duke eventually reveals some of the pressures of his childhood, and the two men start to become friends.  In January 1936, George V dies, and David ascends the throne as King Edward VIII, but causes a constitutional crisis with his determination to marry Wallis Simpson, an American socialite divorcée who is still legally married to her second husband. At a party in Balmoral Castle, Albert points out that Edward, as head of the Church of England, cannot marry Mrs. Simpson, even if she receives her second divorce; Edward accuses his brother of wanting to usurp his place.  In January 1936, George V dies, and David ascends the throne as King Edward VIII, but causes a constitutional crisis with his determination to marry   Wallis Simpson  Wallis Simpson  , an American socialite divorcée who is still legally married to her second husband. At a party in   Balmoral Castle  Balmoral Castle  , Albert points out that Edward, as   head of the Church of England  head of the Church of England  , cannot marry Mrs. Simpson, even if she receives her second divorce; Edward accuses his brother of wanting to usurp his place.Colin Firth and Helena Bonham Carter as the Duke and Duchess of York.Colin Firth and Helena Bonham Carter as the Duke and Duchess of York.Colin Firth and Helena Bonham Carter as the Duke and Duchess of York.Colin Firth and Helena Bonham Carter as the Duke and Duchess of York.  At his next session, Albert expresses his frustration that while his speech has improved when talking to most people, he still stammers when talking to his own brother, and reveals the extent of Edward VIII's folly with Mrs. Simpson. When Logue insists that Albert could be a good king instead of his brother, the latter labels such a suggestion as treason, and in his anger, mocks and dismisses Logue. When King Edward VIII abdicates to marry Mrs. Simpson, Albert accedes as King George VI. The new King and Queen visit Logue at his home to apologise, startling Mrs. Logue, who was unaware that the new king was her husband's patient.  At his next session, Albert expresses his frustration that while his speech has improved when talking to most people, he still stammers when talking to his own brother, and reveals the extent of Edward VIII's folly with Mrs. Simpson. When Logue insists that Albert could be a good king instead of his brother, the latter labels such a suggestion as   treason  treason  , and in his anger, mocks and dismisses Logue. When   King Edward VIII abdicates  King Edward VIII abdicates   to marry Mrs. Simpson, Albert accedes as King George VI. The new King and Queen visit Logue at his home to apologise, startling Mrs. Logue, who was   unaware that the new king was her husband's patient  unaware that the new king was her husband's patient  .  During preparations for his coronation in Westminster Abbey, George VI learns that Logue has no formal qualifications, as initially assumed by him. When confronted, Logue explains how he was asked to help shell-shocked Australian soldiers returning from the First World War. When George VI remains unconvinced of his fitness for the throne, Logue sits in King Edward's Chair and dismisses the underlying Stone of Scone as a trifle. Goaded by Logue's seeming disrespect, the King surprises himself with his own sudden burst of outraged eloquence.  During preparations for his coronation in   Westminster Abbey  Westminster Abbey  , George VI learns that Logue has no formal qualifications, as initially assumed by him. When confronted, Logue explains how he was asked to help   shell-shocked  shell-shocked   Australian soldiers returning from the First World War. When George VI remains unconvinced of his fitness for the throne, Logue sits in   King Edward's Chair  King Edward's Chair   and dismisses the underlying   Stone of Scone  Stone of Scone   as a trifle. Goaded by Logue's seeming disrespect, the King surprises himself with his own sudden burst of outraged eloquence.  Upon the declaration of war with Nazi Germany in September 1939, George VI summons Logue to Buckingham Palace to prepare for his upcoming radio address to millions of listeners in Britain and the Empire. Knowing the challenge that lies before him, both Winston Churchill and Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain offer the King their support. The King and Logue are then left in the room. He delivers his speech somewhat competently, while Logue guides him. By the end of his speech, George VI is speaking freely with little to no guidance from Logue. Afterwards, the King and his family step onto the balcony of the palace, and are applauded by the thousands who have gathered.  Upon the declaration of   war  war   with   Nazi Germany  Nazi Germany   in September 1939, George VI summons Logue to   Buckingham Palace  Buckingham Palace   to prepare for his upcoming radio address to millions of listeners in   Britain  Britain   and   the Empire  the Empire  . Knowing the challenge that lies before him, both   Winston Churchill  Winston Churchill   and Prime Minister   Neville Chamberlain  Neville Chamberlain   offer the King their support. The King and Logue are then left in the room. He delivers his speech somewhat competently, while Logue guides him. By the end of his speech, George VI is speaking freely with little to no guidance from Logue. Afterwards, the King and his family step onto the balcony of the palace, and are applauded by the thousands who have gathered.  A title card explains that Logue was always present at King George VI's speeches during the war, and that they remained friends for the rest of their lives.  A   title card  title card   explains that Logue was always present at King George VI's speeches during the war, and that they remained friends for the rest of their lives. 