    Play media  Play media  Play media  Play mediaThe film's trailerThe film's trailer  Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) is a wealthy Main Line Philadelphia socialite who had divorced C. K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), a member of her social set, because he did not measure up to her exacting standards. (He was an alcoholic, and her lack of faith in him exacerbated his condition.) She is about to marry nouveau riche "man of the people" George Kittredge (John Howard).  Tracy Lord (  Katharine Hepburn  Katharine Hepburn  ) is a wealthy   Main Line  Main Line     Philadelphia  Philadelphia     socialite  socialite   who had divorced C. K. Dexter Haven (  Cary Grant  Cary Grant  ), a member of her social set, because he did not measure up to her exacting standards. (He was an alcoholic, and her lack of faith in him exacerbated his condition.) She is about to marry   nouveau riche  nouveau riche  nouveau riche   "man of the people" George Kittredge (  John Howard  John Howard  ).  Spy magazine publisher Sidney Kidd (Henry Daniell) is eager to cover the wedding, and he enlists Dexter, one of his former employees, to introduce reporter Macaulay "Mike" Connor (James Stewart) and photographer Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey) as friends of the family so they can report on the wedding. Tracy is not fooled but reluctantly agrees to let them stay—after Dexter explains that Sidney has an innuendo-laden article about Tracy's father, Seth (John Halliday), who, she believes, is having an affair with a dancer. Though he is separated from her mother, Margaret (Mary Nash), and Tracy harbors great resentment against him, she wants to protect her family's reputation.  Spy  Spy   magazine publisher Sidney Kidd (  Henry Daniell  Henry Daniell  ) is eager to cover the wedding, and he enlists Dexter, one of his former employees, to introduce reporter Macaulay "Mike" Connor (  James Stewart  James Stewart  ) and photographer Liz Imbrie (  Ruth Hussey  Ruth Hussey  ) as friends of the family so they can report on the wedding. Tracy is not fooled but reluctantly agrees to let them stay—after Dexter explains that Sidney has an innuendo-laden article about Tracy's father, Seth (  John Halliday  John Halliday  ), who, she believes, is having an affair with a dancer. Though he is separated from her mother, Margaret (  Mary Nash  Mary Nash  ), and Tracy harbors great resentment against him, she wants to protect her family's reputation.  Dexter is welcomed back with open arms by Margaret and Dinah (Virginia Weidler), Tracy's teenage sister, much to her annoyance. In addition, she gradually discovers that Mike has admirable qualities, and she even takes the trouble to find his published stories in the library. Thus, as the wedding nears, she finds herself torn between George, Dexter, and Mike.  Dexter is welcomed back with open arms by Margaret and Dinah (  Virginia Weidler  Virginia Weidler  ), Tracy's teenage sister, much to her annoyance. In addition, she gradually discovers that Mike has admirable qualities, and she even takes the trouble to find his published stories in the library. Thus, as the wedding nears, she finds herself torn between George, Dexter, and Mike.  The night before the wedding, Tracy gets drunk for only the second time in her life and takes an innocent swim with Mike. When George sees Mike carrying an intoxicated Tracy into the house afterward, he thinks the worst. The next day, he tells her that he was shocked and feels entitled to an explanation before going ahead with the wedding. She takes exception to his lack of faith in her and breaks off the engagement. Then she realizes that all the guests have arrived and are waiting for the ceremony to begin. Mike volunteers to marry her (much to Liz's distress), but she graciously declines. At this point, Dexter makes his bid for her hand, which she accepts.  The night before the wedding, Tracy gets drunk for only the second time in her life and takes an innocent swim with Mike. When George sees Mike carrying an intoxicated Tracy into the house afterward, he thinks the worst. The next day, he tells her that he was shocked and feels entitled to an explanation before going ahead with the wedding. She takes exception to his lack of faith in her and breaks off the engagement. Then she realizes that all the guests have arrived and are waiting for the ceremony to begin. Mike volunteers to marry her (much to Liz's distress), but she graciously declines. At this point, Dexter makes his bid for her hand, which she accepts.Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, James Stewart and Ruth Hussey in the filmKatharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, James Stewart and Ruth Hussey in the filmKatharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, James Stewart and Ruth Hussey in the film  Katharine Hepburn  Katharine Hepburn  ,   Cary Grant  Cary Grant  ,   James Stewart  James Stewart   and   Ruth Hussey  Ruth Hussey   in the film 