  Lankester Merrin is a veteran Catholic priest who is on an archeological dig in Iraq. In Iraq he finds an amulet which resembles the statue of Pazuzu, a demon who Merrin defeated years ago. Merrin then realizes the demon has returned to get his revenge.  Lankester Merrin is a veteran Catholic priest who is on an archeological dig in   Iraq  Iraq  . In Iraq he finds an amulet which resembles the statue of   Pazuzu  Pazuzu  , a demon who Merrin defeated years ago. Merrin then realizes the demon has returned to get his revenge.  Meanwhile in Georgetown, Washington, D.C, famous actress Chris MacNeil is living on location with her pre-teen daughter Regan. After playing with an Ouija board Regan acts strangely such as making mysterious noises, constant bad language and abnormal strength. Regan also causes her bed to shake as well, much to her and Chris's horror. Despite giving a few unpleasant operations, Dr. Klein and his assistants find nothing wrong with her, not knowing she is now possessed by Pazuzu.  Meanwhile in   Georgetown, Washington, D.C  Georgetown, Washington, D.C  , famous actress Chris MacNeil is living on location with her pre-teen daughter Regan. After playing with an   Ouija board  Ouija board   Regan acts strangely such as making mysterious noises, constant bad language and abnormal strength. Regan also causes her bed to shake as well, much to her and Chris's horror. Despite giving a few unpleasant operations, Dr. Klein and his assistants find nothing wrong with her, not knowing she is now possessed by Pazuzu.  One night Regan kills her babysitter and Chris's director Burke Dennings who Chris had a crush on (as she and Regan's father divorced). His murder is investigated by a detective named William Kinderman. He interviews both a young priest named Damien Karras, who has lost faith in God after his frail mother died, and Chris. Chris knows Regan was the only one who was in the house when Dennings died.  One night Regan kills her babysitter and Chris's director Burke Dennings who Chris had a crush on (as she and Regan's father divorced). His murder is investigated by a detective named William Kinderman. He interviews both a young priest named Damien Karras, who has lost faith in God after his frail mother died, and Chris. Chris knows Regan was the only one who was in the house when Dennings died.  After the doctors decide that an exorcism may be the only way to help Regan, Chris arranges a meeting with Karras. Karras at first refuses to get permission to perform an exorcism, despite Regan now being totally possessed by the demon. After getting a recording of her talking in reverse and seeing the words "Help Me" on her stomach Karras decides to perform an exorcism with Merrin chosen to help.  After the doctors decide that an   exorcism  exorcism   may be the only way to help Regan, Chris arranges a meeting with Karras. Karras at first refuses to get permission to perform an exorcism, despite Regan now being totally possessed by the demon. After getting a recording of her talking in reverse and seeing the words "Help Me" on her stomach Karras decides to perform an exorcism with Merrin chosen to help.  In Regan's bedroom both men try to exorcise the demon but a stubborn Pazuzu toys with them, especially Karras, including insulting his late mother. After a break and hint of faltering, Karras is dismissed. Merrin attempts the exorcism alone. Karras enters the room and discovers Merrin has died and confronts the mocking, laughing spirit of Pazuzu. At Karras' plea, Pazuzu then possesses Karras, leaving Regan's body. In a moment of self-sacrifice, the priest throws himself out of the window and dies from a broken neck, thereby completing the exorcism of Pazuzu.  In Regan's bedroom both men try to exorcise the demon but a stubborn Pazuzu toys with them, especially Karras, including insulting his late mother. After a break and hint of faltering, Karras is dismissed. Merrin attempts the exorcism alone. Karras enters the room and discovers Merrin has died and confronts the mocking, laughing spirit of Pazuzu. At Karras' plea, Pazuzu then possesses Karras, leaving Regan's body. In a moment of self-sacrifice, the priest throws himself out of the window and dies from a broken neck, thereby completing the exorcism of Pazuzu.  A few days later Regan, who is now back to normal, returns home to Los Angeles with her mother. Kinderman, who narrowly misses them, befriends Father Dyer, an old friend of Karras, as he investigates how Karras died.  A few days later Regan, who is now back to normal, returns home to Los Angeles with her mother. Kinderman, who narrowly misses them, befriends Father Dyer, an old friend of Karras, as he investigates how Karras died. 