  The film starts in sepia-tinted Kansas in the early 1900s. Dorothy Gale lives with her dog Toto on the farm of her Aunt Em and Uncle Henry. Dorothy and Toto get in trouble with a cruel neighbor, Miss Almira Gulch, when Toto bites her. However, Dorothy's family and the farmhands are all too busy to pay attention to her. Miss Gulch arrives with permission from the sheriff to have Toto be euthanized. He is taken away, but escapes and returns to Dorothy; she then decides to run away from home with Toto to escape Miss Gulch. They meet Professor Marvel, a phony fortune teller, who realizes Dorothy has run away and tricks her via his crystal ball into believing that her aunt is ill so that she may return home. She races home as a powerful tornado develops. Unable to get into the storm cellar, she seeks safety in her bedroom. A wind-blown window sash hits her head and she falls unconscious on her bed. She wakes to find the house spinning in the air, held aloft by the twister. In the storm outside the window she sees Aunt Em in a chair, several farm animals, two of the farmhands rowing a boat, as well as Miss Gulch pedaling her bicycle, who transforms into a cackling witch flying on a broomstick.  The film starts in sepia-tinted   Kansas  Kansas   in the early 1900s.   Dorothy Gale  Dorothy Gale   lives with her dog   Toto  Toto   on the farm of her   Aunt Em  Aunt Em   and   Uncle Henry  Uncle Henry  . Dorothy and Toto get in trouble with a cruel neighbor, Miss Almira Gulch, when Toto bites her. However, Dorothy's family and the farmhands are all too busy to pay attention to her. Miss Gulch arrives with permission from the sheriff to have Toto be euthanized. He is taken away, but escapes and returns to Dorothy; she then decides to run away from home with Toto to escape Miss Gulch. They meet Professor Marvel, a phony fortune teller, who realizes Dorothy has run away and tricks her via his crystal ball into believing that her aunt is ill so that she may return home. She races home as a powerful   tornado  tornado   develops. Unable to get into the   storm cellar  storm cellar  , she seeks safety in her bedroom. A wind-blown window sash hits her head and she falls unconscious on her bed. She wakes to find the house spinning in the air, held aloft by the twister. In the storm outside the window she sees Aunt Em in a chair, several farm animals, two of the farmhands rowing a boat, as well as Miss Gulch pedaling her bicycle, who transforms into a cackling witch flying on a broomstick.Dorothy (Judy Garland, right) with Glinda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke).Dorothy (Judy Garland, right) with Glinda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke).Dorothy (Judy Garland, right) with Glinda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke).Dorothy (Judy Garland, right) with Glinda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke).  The farm house crashes in Munchkinland in the world of Oz, where the film changes to Technicolor. Glinda, the Good Witch of the North, and the Munchkins, welcome her as a heroine because the house has landed on and killed the Wicked Witch of the East, leaving only her feet exposed. Her sister, the Wicked Witch of the West, arrives to claim the magic ruby slippers worn on her sister's feet. Glinda transfers them off her feet to Dorothy's feet instead. The Witch of the West swears revenge on Dorothy and Toto for her sister's death. Glinda tells Dorothy to follow the yellow brick road to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz might be able to help her get back home.  The farm house crashes in   Munchkinland  Munchkinland   in the   world of Oz  world of Oz  , where the film changes to Technicolor.   Glinda, the Good Witch of the North  Glinda, the Good Witch of the North  , and the   Munchkins  Munchkins  , welcome her as a heroine because the house has landed on and killed the   Wicked Witch of the East  Wicked Witch of the East  , leaving only her feet exposed. Her sister, the   Wicked Witch of the West  Wicked Witch of the West  , arrives to claim the magic ruby slippers worn on her sister's feet. Glinda transfers them off her feet to Dorothy's feet instead. The Witch of the West swears revenge on Dorothy and Toto for her sister's death. Glinda tells Dorothy to follow the   yellow brick road  yellow brick road   to the   Emerald City  Emerald City  , where the   Wizard of Oz  Wizard of Oz   might be able to help her get back home.  On her way to the Emerald City, Dorothy meets and befriends the Scarecrow who wants a brain, the Tin Woodman who desires a heart, and the Cowardly Lion who is in need of courage. Their faces resemble the farmhands, which Dorothy notices. They join Dorothy to ask the Wizard for their respective consciously declared quality: brain, heart, and courage. After encountering the Witch who attempts to deter them from reaching their destination, they finally reach the Emerald City. Inside, after being initially rejected, they are permitted to see the Wizard (appearing to them in the form of a large head surrounded by fire) who agrees to grant their wishes when they bring him the Witch of the West's broom.  On her way to the Emerald City, Dorothy meets and befriends the   Scarecrow  Scarecrow   who wants a brain, the   Tin Woodman  Tin Woodman   who desires a heart, and the   Cowardly Lion  Cowardly Lion   who is in need of courage. Their faces resemble the farmhands, which Dorothy notices. They join Dorothy to ask the Wizard for their respective consciously declared quality: brain, heart, and courage. After encountering the Witch who attempts to deter them from reaching their destination, they finally reach the Emerald City. Inside, after being initially rejected, they are permitted to see the Wizard (appearing to them in the form of a large head surrounded by fire) who agrees to grant their wishes when they bring him the Witch of the West's broom.  On their quest to the Witch's castle, the group make through their way through the Haunted Forest whilst the Witch continues to view their progress through a crystal ball. She then sends her flying monkeys to ambush the four and capture Dorothy and Toto. At the castle, the Witch again fails to get the slippers off of Dorothy due to a magical barrier, and remembers that Dorothy first has to be killed. Toto then escapes and leads her friends to the castle. After defeating three Winkie Guards and stealing their uniforms, they march inside and free her, but the Witch and her guards eventually trap them. After Scarecrow drops a chandelier onto the Winkies, the group is chased across the battlements, before being trapped on both sides. The Witch then sets fire to the Scarecrow, and Dorothy instinctively splashes a nearby bucket of water onto the flames; the Witch is also hit by it and melts. The guards unexpectedly rejoice now that she is dead, and they give Dorothy the charred broom in gratitude.  On their quest to the Witch's castle, the group make through their way through the Haunted Forest whilst the Witch continues to view their progress through a crystal ball. She then sends her   flying monkeys  flying monkeys   to ambush the four and capture Dorothy and Toto. At the castle, the Witch again fails to get the slippers off of Dorothy due to a magical barrier, and remembers that Dorothy first has to be killed. Toto then escapes and leads her friends to the castle. After defeating three Winkie Guards and stealing their uniforms, they march inside and free her, but the Witch and her guards eventually trap them. After Scarecrow drops a chandelier onto the Winkies, the group is chased across the battlements, before being trapped on both sides. The Witch then sets fire to the Scarecrow, and Dorothy instinctively splashes a nearby bucket of water onto the flames; the Witch is also hit by it and melts. The guards unexpectedly rejoice now that she is dead, and they give Dorothy the charred broom in gratitude.  Back at the Emerald City, the Wizard refuses to grant their wishes at that time, and Toto exposes the "Wizard" as a normal middle-aged man (who resembles Professor Marvel) that has been operating and controlling the wizard; he admits to being a humbug and a bad wizard. Nonetheless, he grants their wishes by giving the Scarecrow a diploma, the Lion a medal, and the Tin Man a heart-shaped watch, and that is enough to convince themselves that what they sought has been achieved. He then prepares to get Dorothy home in his hot air balloon, but as Toto runs away to chase a cat, Dorothy follows, and it leaves without her. Glinda soon arrives and tells her that she can still return home by tapping her heels together three times and repeating, "There's no place like home."[7] After bidding a tearful goodbye to her friends, Dorothy "returns" home, coming to consciousness on her bed surrounded by her family, the farmhands, Professor Marvel, and Toto.  Back at the Emerald City, the Wizard refuses to grant their wishes at that time, and Toto exposes the "Wizard" as a normal middle-aged man (who resembles Professor Marvel) that has been operating and controlling the wizard; he admits to being a   humbug  humbug   and a bad wizard. Nonetheless, he grants their wishes by giving the Scarecrow a   diploma  diploma  , the Lion a medal, and the Tin Man a heart-shaped watch, and that is enough to convince themselves that what they sought has been achieved. He then prepares to get Dorothy home in his hot air balloon, but as Toto runs away to chase a cat, Dorothy follows, and it leaves without her. Glinda soon arrives and tells her that she can still return home by tapping her heels together three times and repeating, "There's no place like home."  [7]  [7]  [  [  7  ]  ]   After bidding a tearful goodbye to her friends, Dorothy "returns" home, coming to consciousness on her bed surrounded by her family, the farmhands, Professor Marvel, and Toto. 