  In September 1939, Władysław Szpilman, a Polish-Jewish pianist, is playing live on the radio in Warsaw when the station is bombed during Nazi Germany's invasion of Poland which caused the outbreak of World War II. Hoping for a quick victory, Szpilman rejoices with his family at home when learning that Britain and France have declared war on Germany. But Poland's allies do not live up to their promises of aid, and with both the German and Russian armies invading Poland at the same time on different fronts, fighting lasts for just over a month. German troops soon enter Warsaw, where life for Jews deteriorates as the Nazi authorities prevent them from working or owning businesses and force them to wear blue Star of David armbands.  In September 1939,   Władysław Szpilman  Władysław Szpilman  , a Polish-Jewish   pianist  pianist  , is playing live on the radio in   Warsaw  Warsaw   when the station is   bombed  bombed   during   Nazi Germany  Nazi Germany  's   invasion of Poland  invasion of Poland   which caused the outbreak of   World War II  World War II  . Hoping for a quick victory, Szpilman rejoices with his family at home when learning that   Britain and France have declared war  Britain and France have declared war   on Germany. But Poland's allies do not live up to their promises of aid, and with both the German and Russian armies invading Poland at the same time on different fronts, fighting lasts for just over a month. German troops soon enter Warsaw, where life for Jews deteriorates as the   Nazi authorities  Nazi authorities   prevent them from working or owning businesses and force them to wear blue   Star of David  Star of David   armbands.Photograph of Władysław SzpilmanPhotograph of Władysław SzpilmanPhotograph of Władysław SzpilmanPhotograph of   Władysław Szpilman  Władysław Szpilman  By November 1940, Szpilman and his family are forced from their home into the overcrowded Warsaw Ghetto, where conditions only get worse. People starve, the guards are brutal, and dead bodies are left lying in the streets. On one occasion, the Szpilmans witness the SS kill an entire family during a round-up in an apartment across the street.  By November 1940, Szpilman and his family are forced from their home into the overcrowded   Warsaw Ghetto  Warsaw Ghetto  , where conditions only get worse. People starve, the guards are brutal, and dead bodies are left lying in the streets. On one occasion, the Szpilmans witness the   SS  SS   kill an entire family during a   round-up  round-up   in an apartment across the street.  On 16 August 1942 the family are deported to Treblinka extermination camp, but Wladyslaw survives at the Umschlagplatz, due to an intervention from a friend in the Jewish Ghetto Police. Szpilman becomes a slave labourer and learns of a coming Jewish revolt. He helps by smuggling weapons into the ghetto, narrowly avoiding a suspicious guard. He then manages to escape and goes into hiding with help from a non-Jewish friend, Andrzej Bogucki, and his wife Janina.  On 16 August 1942 the family are   deported  deported   to   Treblinka extermination camp  Treblinka extermination camp  , but Wladyslaw survives at the   Umschlagplatz  Umschlagplatz  Umschlagplatz  , due to an intervention from a friend in the   Jewish Ghetto Police  Jewish Ghetto Police  . Szpilman becomes a   slave labourer  slave labourer   and learns of a coming Jewish revolt. He helps by smuggling weapons into the ghetto, narrowly avoiding a suspicious guard. He then manages to escape and goes into hiding with help from a non-Jewish friend,   Andrzej Bogucki  Andrzej Bogucki  , and his wife Janina.  In April 1943 Szpilman watches from his window the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising that he aided and its ultimate failure. After a neighbor discovers him hiding, Szpilman is forced to flee and is provided with a second hiding place. He is shown into a room with a piano yet is compelled to keep quiet while beginning to suffer from jaundice.  In April 1943 Szpilman watches from his window the   Warsaw Ghetto Uprising  Warsaw Ghetto Uprising   that he aided and its ultimate failure. After a neighbor discovers him hiding, Szpilman is forced to flee and is provided with a second hiding place. He is shown into a room with a piano yet is compelled to keep quiet while beginning to suffer from   jaundice  jaundice  .  In August 1944, during the Warsaw Uprising, the Polish resistance attacks a German building across the street from Szpilman's hideout. A tank shells his apartment, forcing him to flee and hide elsewhere. Over the course of the following months, the city is destroyed and abandoned, leaving Szpilman alone to search desperately for shelter and supplies among the ruins. He eventually makes his way to an abandoned house, where he finds a can of pickles. While trying to open it he is discovered by the Wehrmacht officer Wilm Hosenfeld, who learns that Szpilman is a pianist and asks him to play on a grand piano in the house. The decrepit Szpilman plays Chopin's Ballade in G minor, which moves Hosenfeld enough that he allows Szpilman to hide in the attic of the empty house, where the German officer regularly brings him food.  In August 1944, during the   Warsaw Uprising  Warsaw Uprising  , the   Polish resistance  Polish resistance   attacks a German building across the street from Szpilman's hideout. A tank shells his apartment, forcing him to flee and hide elsewhere. Over the course of the following months, the city is destroyed and abandoned, leaving Szpilman alone to search desperately for shelter and supplies among the ruins. He eventually makes his way to an abandoned house, where he finds a can of pickles. While trying to open it he is discovered by the   Wehrmacht  Wehrmacht  Wehrmacht   officer   Wilm Hosenfeld  Wilm Hosenfeld  , who learns that Szpilman is a pianist and asks him to play on a   grand piano  grand piano   in the house. The decrepit Szpilman plays   Chopin's Ballade in G minor  Chopin's Ballade in G minor  Chopin's Ballade in G minor  , which moves Hosenfeld enough that he allows Szpilman to hide in the attic of the empty house, where the German officer regularly brings him food.  In January 1945, the Germans are forced to retreat due to the advance of the Red Army. Hosenfeld meets Szpilman for the last time and promises he will listen to him on Polish Radio after the war. He gives Szpilman his greatcoat to keep warm and leaves. However, this has almost fatal consequences for Szpilman when he is mistaken for a German officer and shot at by Polish troops liberating Warsaw, who then apprehend and save him. In Spring 1945, former inmates of a Nazi concentration camp pass a Soviet prisoner-of-war camp holding captured German soldiers and verbally abuse them. Hosenfeld, among those captured, overhears a released inmate lament over his former career as a violinist. He asks the violinist if he knows Szpilman, which he confirms. Hosenfeld wishes for Szpilman to return the favor and help release him. Sometime later, the pianist is able to bring Szpilman back to the site but they find it has been long abandoned.  In January 1945, the Germans are forced to retreat due to the   advance of the Red Army  advance of the Red Army  . Hosenfeld meets Szpilman for the last time and promises he will listen to him on   Polish Radio  Polish Radio   after the war. He gives Szpilman his   greatcoat  greatcoat   to keep warm and leaves. However, this has almost fatal consequences for Szpilman when he is mistaken for a German officer and shot at by   Polish troops  Polish troops   liberating Warsaw, who then apprehend and save him. In Spring 1945, former inmates of a   Nazi concentration camp  Nazi concentration camp   pass a Soviet prisoner-of-war camp holding captured German soldiers and verbally abuse them. Hosenfeld, among those captured, overhears a released inmate lament over his former career as a violinist. He asks the violinist if he knows Szpilman, which he confirms. Hosenfeld wishes for Szpilman to return the favor and help release him. Sometime later, the pianist is able to bring Szpilman back to the site but they find it has been long abandoned.  Later, Szpilman works for Polish Radio and performs Chopin's Grand Polonaise brillante to a large and prestigious audience. An epilogue states that Szpilman died at the age of 88 in the year 2000 while Hosenfeld died in Soviet captivity in 1952.  Later, Szpilman works for Polish Radio and performs Chopin's   Grand Polonaise brillante  Grand Polonaise brillante  Grand Polonaise brillante   to a large and prestigious audience. An epilogue states that Szpilman died at the age of 88 in the year 2000 while Hosenfeld died in Soviet   captivity  captivity   in 1952. 