  The film's young protagonists, Jean Louise "Scout" Finch (Mary Badham) and her brother Jem (Phillip Alford), live in the fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama, during the 1930s. The story covers three years, during which Scout and Jem undergo changes in their lives. They begin as innocent children, who spend their days happily playing games with each other and spying on Arthur "Boo" Radley (Robert Duvall), who has not been seen for many years by anybody as a result of never leaving his house and about whom many rumors circulate. Their widowed father, Atticus (Gregory Peck), is a town lawyer and has a strong belief that all people are to be treated fairly, to turn the other cheek, and to stand for what you believe. He also allows his children to call him by his first name. Early in the film, the children see their father accept hickory nuts, and other produce, from Mr. Cunningham for legal work because the client has no money.[3] Through their father's work as a lawyer, Scout and Jem begin to learn of the racism and evil in their town, aggravated by poverty; they mature quickly as they are exposed to it.  The film's young protagonists, Jean Louise "Scout" Finch (  Mary Badham  Mary Badham  ) and her brother Jem (  Phillip Alford  Phillip Alford  ), live in the fictional town of Maycomb,   Alabama  Alabama  , during the 1930s. The story covers three years, during which Scout and Jem undergo changes in their lives. They begin as innocent children, who spend their days happily playing games with each other and spying on Arthur "Boo" Radley (  Robert Duvall  Robert Duvall  ), who has not been seen for many years by anybody as a result of never leaving his house and about whom many rumors circulate. Their widowed father, Atticus (  Gregory Peck  Gregory Peck  ), is a town lawyer and has a strong belief that all people are to be treated fairly, to turn the other cheek, and to stand for what you believe. He also allows his children to call him by his first name. Early in the film, the children see their father accept hickory nuts, and other produce, from Mr. Cunningham for legal work because the client has no money.  [3]  [3]  [  [  3  ]  ]   Through their father's work as a lawyer, Scout and Jem begin to learn of the   racism  racism   and evil in their town, aggravated by poverty; they mature quickly as they are exposed to it.  The local judge appoints Atticus to defend a black man, Tom Robinson (Brock Peters), against an accusation of rape of a white teenaged girl, Mayella Ewell. Atticus accepts the case. Jem and Scout experience schoolyard taunts for their father's decision. Later, a lynch mob, led by Mr. Cunningham, tries to lynch Robinson over Atticus' objections. Scout, Jem and their friend, Dill, interrupt the confrontation. Scout, unaware of the mob's purpose, recognizes Cunningham as the man who paid her father in hickory nuts and tells him to say hello to his son, who is her schoolmate. Cunningham becomes embarrassed and the mob disperses. It is undisputed that Tom came to Mayella's home, at her request, to assist her with chopping up a chifforobe. It is also undisputed that Mayella showed signs of having been beaten around that time. Among Atticus' chief arguments, he points out that Tom is crippled in his left arm, and that the supposed rapist would have had to make extensive use of his left hand in assaulting Mayella before raping her. At the same time Atticus demonstrates that Mayella's father, Bob Ewell, is left handed, implying that he - rather than Tom - was the one who beat Mayella. Atticus also states that the girl had not even been examined by a doctor to check for signs of rape after the supposed assault. In his closing argument Atticus asks the all white, male jury to cast aside their prejudices and instead focus on Tom's obvious innocence. In taking the stand in his own defense, Tom testifies he assisted Mayella because he felt pity for her due to her circumstances. In a town where whites are viewed as superior to blacks, Tom's sympathy for Mayella dooms his case.  The local judge appoints Atticus to defend a black man, Tom Robinson (  Brock Peters  Brock Peters  ), against an accusation of rape of a white teenaged girl, Mayella Ewell. Atticus accepts the case. Jem and Scout experience schoolyard taunts for their father's decision. Later, a lynch mob, led by Mr. Cunningham, tries to lynch Robinson over Atticus' objections. Scout, Jem and their friend, Dill, interrupt the confrontation. Scout, unaware of the mob's purpose, recognizes Cunningham as the man who paid her father in hickory nuts and tells him to say hello to his son, who is her schoolmate. Cunningham becomes embarrassed and the mob disperses. It is undisputed that Tom came to Mayella's home, at her request, to assist her with chopping up a   chifforobe  chifforobe  . It is also undisputed that Mayella showed signs of having been beaten around that time. Among Atticus' chief arguments, he points out that Tom is crippled in his left arm, and that the supposed rapist would have had to make extensive use of his left hand in assaulting Mayella before raping her. At the same time Atticus demonstrates that Mayella's father, Bob Ewell, is left handed, implying that he - rather than Tom - was the one who beat Mayella. Atticus also states that the girl had not even been examined by a doctor to check for signs of rape after the supposed assault. In his closing argument Atticus asks the all white, male jury to cast aside their prejudices and instead focus on Tom's obvious innocence. In taking the stand in his own defense, Tom testifies he assisted Mayella because he felt pity for her due to her circumstances. In a town where whites are viewed as superior to blacks, Tom's sympathy for Mayella dooms his case.  Atticus arrives home to find out that Tom has been killed by a deputy during Tom's transportation to prison. This deputy characterizes the event surrounding his death as an escape attempt. The deputy reported that Tom ran like a "crazy" man before he was shot. A short time later, Scout and Jem attend an evening Halloween pageant at their school. Scout wears a ham costume, portraying one of Maycomb county's products. During the pageant, Scout misplaces her dress and her shoes. Scout is forced to walk home without shoes in her ham costume. On their way home, Scout and Jem are attacked by an unidentified man who has been following them in the woods. Scout's costume, like an awkward suit of armor, protects her from the attack but restricts her movement and severely circumscribes her vision. Their attacker is thwarted and overcome by another unidentified man. Jem is knocked unconscious and Scout escapes unharmed in a brief but violent struggle. Scout escapes her costume in time to see a man carrying Jem home. Scout follows and finds Jem unconscious. Jem is later diagnosed with a broken arm. Sheriff Tate says that the attacker was the vengeful Bob Ewell, the drunkard father of Mayella, the girl Tom Robinson allegedly raped.  Atticus arrives home to find out that Tom has been killed by a deputy during Tom's transportation to prison. This deputy characterizes the event surrounding his death as an escape attempt. The deputy reported that Tom ran like a "crazy" man before he was shot. A short time later, Scout and Jem attend an evening Halloween pageant at their school. Scout wears a ham costume, portraying one of Maycomb county's products. During the pageant, Scout misplaces her dress and her shoes. Scout is forced to walk home without shoes in her ham costume. On their way home, Scout and Jem are attacked by an unidentified man who has been following them in the woods. Scout's costume, like an awkward suit of armor, protects her from the attack but restricts her movement and severely circumscribes her vision. Their attacker is thwarted and overcome by another unidentified man. Jem is knocked unconscious and Scout escapes unharmed in a brief but violent struggle. Scout escapes her costume in time to see a man carrying Jem home. Scout follows and finds Jem unconscious. Jem is later diagnosed with a broken arm. Sheriff Tate says that the attacker was the vengeful Bob Ewell, the drunkard father of Mayella, the girl Tom Robinson allegedly raped.  The sheriff arrives to report that he has found Bob Ewell dead with a knife in his ribs. Scout notices Arthur "Boo" Radley standing in corner of the room and recognizes him as the person who came to their aid against Ewell in the woods. Atticus assumes Jem killed Ewell in self-defense. Sheriff Tate, however, believes that Boo has justifiably killed Ewell and tells Atticus that to drag the shy and reserved Boo into the spotlight for his heroism would be "a sin". To protect Boo, Sheriff Tate suggests the conclusion that Ewell "fell on his knife". Scout draws a startlingly precocious analogy to an earlier lesson from the film (hence its title) when she likens public recognition of Boo to killing a mockingbird. The film ends with Scout considering events from Boo's point of view, and Atticus watching over the unconscious Jem.  The sheriff arrives to report that he has found Bob Ewell dead with a knife in his ribs. Scout notices Arthur "Boo" Radley standing in corner of the room and recognizes him as the person who came to their aid against Ewell in the woods. Atticus assumes Jem killed Ewell in self-defense. Sheriff Tate, however, believes that Boo has justifiably killed Ewell and tells Atticus that to drag the shy and reserved Boo into the spotlight for his heroism would be "a sin". To protect Boo, Sheriff Tate suggests the conclusion that Ewell "fell on his knife". Scout draws a startlingly precocious analogy to an earlier lesson from the film (hence its title) when she likens public recognition of Boo to killing a mockingbird. The film ends with Scout considering events from Boo's point of view, and Atticus watching over the unconscious Jem. 