  A group of prostitutes in Big Whiskey, Wyoming, led by Strawberry Alice, offer a $1,000 reward to whoever can kill Quick Mike and "Davey-Boy" Bunting, two cowboys who disfigured Delilah Fitzgerald. The local sheriff, Little Bill Daggett, a former gunfighter and keeper of the peace, is worried about their incentive, as he does not allow guns or criminals in his town. Little Bill had given the two men leniency, despite their crime.  A group of prostitutes in Big Whiskey, Wyoming, led by Strawberry Alice, offer a $1,000 reward to whoever can kill Quick Mike and "Davey-Boy" Bunting, two cowboys who disfigured Delilah Fitzgerald. The local sheriff, Little Bill Daggett, a former gunfighter and keeper of the peace, is worried about their incentive, as he does not allow guns or criminals in his town. Little Bill had given the two men leniency, despite their crime.  Miles away in Kansas, the Schofield Kid, a boastful young man, visits the pig farm of William Munny, seeking to recruit him to kill the cowboys. In his youth, Munny was a bandit notorious as a cold-blooded murderer. Now a repentant widower raising two children, he has sworn off alcohol and killing. Though Munny initially refuses to help with the execution, his farm is failing, putting his children's future in jeopardy. Munny reconsiders a few days later and sets off to catch up with the Kid. On his way, Munny recruits Ned Logan, another retired gunfighter, who leaves his wife to go along.  Miles away in Kansas, the Schofield Kid, a boastful young man, visits the pig farm of William Munny, seeking to recruit him to kill the cowboys. In his youth, Munny was a bandit notorious as a cold-blooded murderer. Now a repentant widower raising two children, he has sworn off alcohol and killing. Though Munny initially refuses to help with the execution, his farm is failing, putting his children's future in jeopardy. Munny reconsiders a few days later and sets off to catch up with the Kid. On his way, Munny recruits Ned Logan, another retired gunfighter, who leaves his wife to go along.  Back in Wyoming, gunfighter English Bob, and old acquaintance and rival of Little Bill, is also seeking the reward and arrives in Big Whiskey with a biographer, W. W. Beauchamp. Little Bill and his deputies disarm Bob, and Bill beats him savagely, hoping to discourage other would-be killers. That night in the town jail, Little Bill begins to dissect the boastful stories that Bob has been telling Mr. Beauchamp, revealing him to be a cowardly backshooter rather than the heroic figure he has made himself out to be to his biographer. The next morning he ejects Bob from town, but Beauchamp decides to stay and write about Bill. He has impressed the biographer with his tales of old gunfights and seeming knowledge of the inner workings of a gunfighter's psyche.  Back in Wyoming, gunfighter English Bob, and old acquaintance and rival of Little Bill, is also seeking the reward and arrives in Big Whiskey with a biographer, W. W. Beauchamp. Little Bill and his deputies disarm Bob, and Bill beats him savagely, hoping to discourage other would-be killers. That night in the town jail, Little Bill begins to dissect the boastful stories that Bob has been telling Mr. Beauchamp, revealing him to be a cowardly backshooter rather than the heroic figure he has made himself out to be to his biographer. The next morning he ejects Bob from town, but Beauchamp decides to stay and write about Bill. He has impressed the biographer with his tales of old gunfights and seeming knowledge of the inner workings of a gunfighter's psyche.  Munny, Logan and the Kid arrive later during a rain storm; they go to the saloon/whorehouse to discover the cowboys' location. With a bad fever after riding in the rain, Munny is sitting alone in the saloon when Little Bill and his deputies arrive to confront him. With no idea of Munny's past, Little Bill beats him and kicks him out of the saloon after finding a pistol on him. Logan and the Kid, upstairs getting "advances" on their payment from the prostitutes, escape out a back window. The three regroup at a barn outside of town, where they nurse Munny back to health.  Munny, Logan and the Kid arrive later during a rain storm; they go to the saloon/whorehouse to discover the cowboys' location. With a bad fever after riding in the rain, Munny is sitting alone in the saloon when Little Bill and his deputies arrive to confront him. With no idea of Munny's past, Little Bill beats him and kicks him out of the saloon after finding a pistol on him. Logan and the Kid, upstairs getting "advances" on their payment from the prostitutes, escape out a back window. The three regroup at a barn outside of town, where they nurse Munny back to health.  Three days later, they ambush a group of cowboys and kill Bunting. Logan and Munny no longer have much stomach for murder. Logan decides to return home while Munny feels they must finish what they started. Munny and the Kid head to the cowboys' ranch, where the Kid ambushes Quick Mike in an outhouse and kills him. After they escape, a distraught Kid confesses he had never killed anyone before. Munny advises him to drink more whiskey to numb the pain of realizing that when you kill someone, you take everything they have, and ever will have. The Kid renounces life as a gunfighter and plans to return home.  Three days later, they ambush a group of cowboys and kill Bunting. Logan and Munny no longer have much stomach for murder. Logan decides to return home while Munny feels they must finish what they started. Munny and the Kid head to the cowboys' ranch, where the Kid ambushes Quick Mike in an outhouse and kills him. After they escape, a distraught Kid confesses he had never killed anyone before. Munny advises him to drink more whiskey to numb the pain of realizing that when you kill someone, you take everything they have, and ever will have. The Kid renounces life as a gunfighter and plans to return home.  When Little Sue meets the two men to give them the reward, they learn that Logan was captured by Little Bill's men and tortured to death. He had revealed the names of his two accomplices before dying, after which his corpse was displayed outside the saloon. After this, The Kid heads back to Kansas to deliver the reward money to Munny's children and Logan's wife. Munny takes Ned's whiskey bottle from the kid, takes a few gulps, and heads into town to take revenge on Little Bill.  When Little Sue meets the two men to give them the reward, they learn that Logan was captured by Little Bill's men and tortured to death. He had revealed the names of his two accomplices before dying, after which his corpse was displayed outside the saloon. After this, The Kid heads back to Kansas to deliver the reward money to Munny's children and Logan's wife. Munny takes Ned's whiskey bottle from the kid, takes a few gulps, and heads into town to take revenge on Little Bill.  That night, Munny arrives and sees that Logan's corpse is indeed displayed in a coffin outside the saloon. Inside, Little Bill has assembled a posse to pursue Munny and the Kid. Munny walks in alone and kills Skinny Dubois, the saloon owner and pimp. After some tense dialogue, a gunfight ensues, leaving Bill wounded and several of his deputies dead. Munny orders everyone out if they didn't want to get killed. Just as a wounded Little Bill weakly lifts his pistol and cocks it, Munny turns and kicks it from his hand. Bill says he doesn't deserve this and curses Munny before the latter finishes him with a final gunshot, telling Bill that "deserve's got nothing to do with it". Munny threatens the townsfolk before finally leaving town, warning that he will return if Logan is not buried properly or if any prostitutes are further harmed.  That night, Munny arrives and sees that Logan's corpse is indeed displayed in a coffin outside the saloon. Inside, Little Bill has assembled a posse to pursue Munny and the Kid. Munny walks in alone and kills Skinny Dubois, the saloon owner and pimp. After some tense dialogue, a gunfight ensues, leaving Bill wounded and several of his deputies dead. Munny orders everyone out if they didn't want to get killed. Just as a wounded Little Bill weakly lifts his pistol and cocks it, Munny turns and kicks it from his hand. Bill says he doesn't deserve this and curses Munny before the latter finishes him with a final gunshot, telling Bill that "deserve's got nothing to do with it". Munny threatens the townsfolk before finally leaving town, warning that he will return if Logan is not buried properly or if any prostitutes are further harmed.  A brief epilogue states that Munny was rumored to have moved to San Francisco, where he prospered in dry goods.  A brief epilogue states that Munny was rumored to have moved to San Francisco, where he prospered in   dry goods  dry goods  . 