 Plot synopsis  [edit]  [  [  edit  edit  ]  ]  In the West Side's Lincoln Square neighborhood in Manhattan, there is tension between a Caucasian gang, the Jets, led by Riff, and a Puerto Rican gang of immigrants, the Sharks, led by Bernardo. After a brawl erupts ("Prologue"), Lieutenant Schrank and Officer Krupke arrive and break it up. The Jets decide to challenge the Sharks to a rumble at an upcoming dance for neighborhood control.  In the   West Side  West Side  's   Lincoln Square  Lincoln Square   neighborhood in   Manhattan  Manhattan  , there is tension between a Caucasian gang, the Jets, led by Riff, and a   Puerto Rican  Puerto Rican   gang of immigrants, the Sharks, led by Bernardo. After a brawl erupts ("Prologue"), Lieutenant Schrank and Officer Krupke arrive and break it up. The Jets decide to challenge the Sharks to a rumble at an upcoming dance for neighborhood control.  Riff decides that his best friend Tony, the co-founder of the Jets who left the gang, should fight ("Jet Song"). Riff invites Tony to the dance, but Tony is uninterested. He tells Riff that he senses something important will happen, which Riff suggests could have correlation with the dance ("Something's Coming").  Riff decides that his best friend Tony, the co-founder of the Jets who left the gang, should fight ("Jet Song"). Riff invites Tony to the dance, but Tony is uninterested. He tells Riff that he senses something important will happen, which Riff suggests could have correlation with the dance ("Something's Coming").  Bernardo's younger sister, Maria, tells her best friend and Bernardo's girlfriend, Anita, how excited she is about the dance. Anita jokes that Maria has only moved to America to marry Chino, and Maria confesses that she doesn't love Chino.  Bernardo's younger sister, Maria, tells her best friend and Bernardo's girlfriend, Anita, how excited she is about the dance. Anita jokes that Maria has only moved to America to marry Chino, and Maria confesses that she doesn't love Chino.  At the dance, the gangs and girls refuse to intermingle ("Dance at the Gym"). Tony arrives and he and Maria fall in love at first sight and briefly kiss. However, Bernardo angrily demands that Tony stay away from her. Riff proposes a meeting with Bernardo at Doc's drug store. Tony leaves the dance alone and wanders the neighborhood streets, lovestruck ("Maria").  At the dance, the gangs and girls refuse to intermingle ("Dance at the Gym"). Tony arrives and he and Maria fall in love at first sight and briefly kiss. However, Bernardo angrily demands that Tony stay away from her. Riff proposes a meeting with Bernardo at Doc's drug store. Tony leaves the dance alone and wanders the neighborhood streets, lovestruck ("  Maria  Maria  ").  Maria is sent home, and Anita argues that Bernardo is overprotective of Maria, and they compare the advantages of Puerto Rico and the United States ("America").  Maria is sent home, and Anita argues that Bernardo is overprotective of Maria, and they compare the advantages of Puerto Rico and the United States ("  America  America  ").  Tony discreetly visits Maria on her fire escape, where they reaffirm their love ("Tonight"). Krupke, who suspects the Jets are planning something, visits them and warns them not to cause trouble, for which the Jets mock him after he leaves ("Gee, Officer Krupke"). When the Sharks arrive, both groups agree to have the showdown the following evening under the highway, with a one-on-one fist fight. When Schrank arrives, the gangs feign friendship. Schrank orders the Sharks out and unsuccessfully tries to divulge information about the fight from the Jets.  Tony discreetly visits Maria on her fire escape, where they reaffirm their love ("  Tonight  Tonight  "). Krupke, who suspects the Jets are planning something, visits them and warns them not to cause trouble, for which the Jets mock him after he leaves ("Gee, Officer Krupke"). When the Sharks arrive, both groups agree to have the showdown the following evening under the highway, with a one-on-one fist fight. When Schrank arrives, the gangs feign friendship. Schrank orders the Sharks out and unsuccessfully tries to divulge information about the fight from the Jets.  The next day at the bridal shop, Maria's friends notice that she is acting strangely, and she explains that she is in love ("I Feel Pretty"). Anita accidentally tells Maria about the rumble while they close shop for the night. Tony arrives to see Maria, which shocks Anita. They profess their love and Anita warns them about the consequences if Bernardo learns of their relationship. Maria makes Tony promise that he'll prevent the rumble. Tony and Maria fantasize about their wedding ceremony ("One Hand, One Heart").  The next day at the bridal shop, Maria's friends notice that she is acting strangely, and she explains that she is in love ("  I Feel Pretty  I Feel Pretty  "). Anita accidentally tells Maria about the rumble while they close shop for the night. Tony arrives to see Maria, which shocks Anita. They profess their love and Anita warns them about the consequences if Bernardo learns of their relationship. Maria makes Tony promise that he'll prevent the rumble. Tony and Maria fantasize about their wedding ceremony ("One Hand, One Heart").  The Jets and Sharks approach the area under the highway ("Quintet"). Tony arrives to stop the fight, but Bernardo antagonizes him. Unwilling to watch Tony be humiliated, Riff initiates a knife fight. Tony tries to intervene, which leads to Bernardo stabbing Riff, killing him. Tony kills Bernardo with Riff's knife and a melee ensues. Police sirens blare and everyone flees, leaving behind the dead bodies of Riff and Bernardo.  The Jets and Sharks approach the area under the highway ("  Quintet  Quintet  "). Tony arrives to stop the fight, but Bernardo antagonizes him. Unwilling to watch Tony be humiliated, Riff initiates a knife fight. Tony tries to intervene, which leads to Bernardo stabbing Riff, killing him. Tony kills Bernardo with Riff's knife and a melee ensues. Police sirens blare and everyone flees, leaving behind the dead bodies of Riff and Bernardo.  Maria waits for Tony on the rooftop of her apartment building, when Chino arrives and tells her about the fight. When she asks if Tony was hurt, Chino angrily shouts that Tony has killed Bernardo, and leaves. Tony arrives and explains what transpired and asks for her forgiveness before he turns himself in to the police. Maria confirms her love for him and asks Tony to stay with her ("Somewhere").  Maria waits for Tony on the rooftop of her apartment building, when Chino arrives and tells her about the fight. When she asks if Tony was hurt, Chino angrily shouts that Tony has killed Bernardo, and leaves. Tony arrives and explains what transpired and asks for her forgiveness before he turns himself in to the police. Maria confirms her love for him and asks Tony to stay with her ("  Somewhere  Somewhere  ").  The Jets have reassembled outside a garage, with their new leader, Ice, having them focus on reacting to the police ("Cool"). Anybodys arrives and warns them that Chino is now after Tony, and has a gun. Ice sends the Jets to warn Tony.  The Jets have reassembled outside a garage, with their new leader, Ice, having them focus on reacting to the police ("  Cool  Cool  "). Anybodys arrives and warns them that Chino is now after Tony, and has a gun. Ice sends the Jets to warn Tony.  Anita enters the apartment while Tony and Maria are in the bedroom. Tony and Maria arrange to meet at Doc's, where they will pick up getaway money to elope. Anita spots Tony leaving through the window and chides Maria for the relationship ("A Boy Like That"), but Maria convinces her to help them elope ("I Have a Love").  Anita enters the apartment while Tony and Maria are in the bedroom. Tony and Maria arrange to meet at Doc's, where they will pick up getaway money to elope. Anita spots Tony leaving through the window and chides Maria for the relationship ("  A Boy Like That  A Boy Like That  "), but Maria convinces her to help them elope ("I Have a Love").  Schrank arrives and questions Maria about the rumble. To cover for Tony, Maria sends Anita to Doc's in her stead to tell him that Maria has been delayed from meeting him. When Anita reaches Doc's, the Jets harass her, until Doc intervenes. Shaken and angered, Anita declares that Bernardo was right about them and that Chino has killed Maria in a jealous rage. Disgusted with their behavior, Doc banishes the Jets and delivers Tony his getaway money and Anita's message. Tony runs into the streets, shouting for Chino to find him and kill him as well.  Schrank arrives and questions Maria about the rumble. To cover for Tony, Maria sends Anita to Doc's in her stead to tell him that Maria has been delayed from meeting him. When Anita reaches Doc's, the Jets harass her, until Doc intervenes. Shaken and angered, Anita declares that Bernardo was right about them and that Chino has killed Maria in a jealous rage. Disgusted with their behavior, Doc banishes the Jets and delivers Tony his getaway money and Anita's message. Tony runs into the streets, shouting for Chino to find him and kill him as well.  In the playground next to Doc's, Tony spots Maria and they run toward each other, only for Chino to emerge and shoot Tony. The Jets and Sharks arrive to find Maria holding Tony, who dies ("Somewhere (Reprise)"). Maria stops the gangs from fighting and takes the gun from Chino and threatens everyone, blaming their hate for the deaths of Riff, Bernardo, and Tony. Schrank, Krupke, and Doc arrive. When the Jets raise Tony's body, the Sharks rush forward to help them, and together with Maria they form a funeral procession. The police arrest Chino and lead him away ("Finale").  In the playground next to Doc's, Tony spots Maria and they run toward each other, only for Chino to emerge and shoot Tony. The Jets and Sharks arrive to find Maria holding Tony, who dies ("Somewhere (Reprise)"). Maria stops the gangs from fighting and takes the gun from Chino and threatens everyone, blaming their hate for the deaths of Riff, Bernardo, and Tony. Schrank, Krupke, and Doc arrive. When the Jets raise Tony's body, the Sharks rush forward to help them, and together with Maria they form a funeral procession. The police arrest Chino and lead him away ("Finale"). 