“Jason Bourne” may entice ticket buyers with prospects of a creative and adrenalin-pumping reunion between Matt Damon and director Paul Greengrass, a duo that went beyond typical blockbuster expectations
with “The Bourne Supremacy” and “The Bourne Ultimatum.” Being a fan of both of
those movies, I too had high hopes for a return to form for the character who
shares a monogram with 007. But it’s mere minutes into “Jason Bourne” that something is wrong. Is it the stoic, nearly dialogue-less (25 lines in the
entire film) take on Bourne? Is it the more-hyperactive-than-ever action
cinematography and editing, designed to make every phone call answered and
strident walk taken seem important?
How about the familiarity of a plot that literally echoes questions these
characters have already asked and answered? “Jason Bourne” is a film I kept trying to like. It just wouldn’t let me.
After learning the truth of his progression from David Webb
to superspy Jason Bourne in the previous two Greengrass films and, of course,
Doug Liman’s “The Bourne Identity,” JB (Matt Damon) is essentially in hiding.
Sure, he pops up for the occasional street fight, but he’s a loner, the kind of
guy with no current attachments, deeply off the grid. (It’s worth
noting that Greengrass and co-writer Christopher Rouse are just barely
interested in setting up where Bourne has been and what he’s up to in 2016.) It’s
mere minutes before Nicky (Julia Stiles) drags Bourne back on the radar of
the nefarious Powers That Be, this time personified by CIA Director Robert
Dewey (Tommy Lee Jones). Nicky wants to give Bourne even more of the background
behind the Treadstone project, particularly the details about what really
happened to Bourne’s father, Richard Webb (Gregg Henry).
Of course, Dewey can’t let that happen, and he plans to use
CIA agent Heather Lee (Alicia Vikander) and an assassin known merely as “Asset”
(Vincent Cassel) to keep his undercover dealings undercover. One of the reasons
that Dewey is particularly panicked about the return of Bourne is that he’s
also deeply involved with a tech pioneer named Aaron Kalloor (Riz Ahmed,
currently seen on HBO's “The Night Of”), the head of a company called Deep Dream that promises intense levels of privacy to its customers but has been working
with the CIA in secret. “Jason Bourne” includes several of today’s
greatest hot button concerns—internet privacy, government intrusion—but they feel like window dressing. 
Matt Damon said in a press conference in 2007 that he thought his
iteration of Jason Bourne was over; he had reached the end point of his
character’s journey, his search for his identity. He stated, “… all of that
internal propulsive mechanism that drives the character is not there, so if
there was to be another one then it would have to be a complete
reconfiguration, you know, where do you go from there? For me I kind of feel
like the story that we set out to tell is has now been told.” He clearly still
feels that way. Damon can be a complex, character-driven actor with the right
material, but his heart’s not in this. Tommy Lee Jones feels even less invested with the little bit of character he’s been given, and poor Alicia Vikander might as well be named Plot Device in that we know exactly what her
arc is going to be from the minute we see her. Perhaps worst of all, Greengrass
finds a way to waste Vincent Cassel, one of our most physically vibrant and
menacing actors. Cassel does most of his acting scowling through a sniper scope, and
isn’t allowed to really break out until the end of the film. Only Riz Ahmed makes
any impact on a performance level, doing a lot with very little—watch the way
he subtly plays a successful businessman who knows the skeletons are about to
fall out of his closet. There's a much better version of "Jason Bourne" that focuses on him, contrasting his arc as a man caught up in something greater than himself with our hero's.
Ahmed registers because one senses an urgency to his character’s plight, which is not the case with the
rest of the film. Rarely has there been so much intensity in the pursuit of a
story that feels like it has no stakes. When “Jason Bourne” is done, ask yourself
what everyone was yelling, running and fighting about. Good luck coming up
with a satisfying answer. It’s as if Greengrass and company knew that they couldn't orchestrate an intriguing new arc for their beloved character, so they just repeated one. The film is like Jason Bourne fan fiction in how much it
completely reworks things we’ve seen before, only with a few more years of cyberterrorism
buzzwords to give viewers the illusion of not just depth but a plot. 
Even Greengrass’ trademark style feels uninspired. Barry
Ackroyd (“The Hurt Locker”) is an undeniably talented cinematographer, but his
style doesn’t have the same kinetic energy as Oliver Wood’s work in the
original trilogy, which put us right in the middle of the action. It’s a fine
line, but a crucial one; Wood’s camera feels urgent, as if we might get
punched too, whereas Ackroyd’s feels cluttered and desperate. Returning
editor Christopher Rouse (who’s cut all of Greengrass’ films) is the technical
MVP here, giving the film a propulsive energy that could convince some people they’re watching something fun and exciting just by sheer force. However, when
it’s over, even viewers more eager to forgive this failed creative reunion will wonder what it is that they just watched, and what purpose
it serves other than financial. And why no one figured out a new, engaging way
to tell a story that’s already been told.
